So let's build our own

generic type now, shall we.

For that I'll use the type keyword,

and I'll name it DataStore.

That will be the name of my type.

And my idea here is to, in the end,

set up an object type here.

And in that object type, I want to allow the user

to put all kinds of properties

so that we can use this as a DataStore.

So when we're using this DataStore type in our code,

I want to allow us the developer to add

as many properties with any names we want to this object.

And you learned earlier in the course how you can do that.

You can use this index type feature

where you use square brackets here.

Then any placeholder of your choice like prop

or a key, then you describe what the type

of the key name will be.

And often that will be a string,

but it could also be a number

or a symbol as you learned earlier.

But here I'll go for a string.

And then you describe the kind of value

that can be stored under that key.

And that's not a part

where this generic type feature can come in handy

because earlier in the course I showed you that you could,

for example, allow the storage of strings and numbers.

And with that we could create a new value

of type DataStore, which would be an object.

And there I could add my name property, for example,

and store Max.

But if I wanted to store a Boolean like is instructor,

that would give us an error

because this here is only configured to accept strings

and numbers, not Booleans.

And that's exactly where this generic type feature

can help us now.

Because we can make this DataStore type here

a bit more flexible by turning it into a generic type.

And we do turn this into a generic type, so into a type

that works together with other types

by adding angle brackets here after the type name.

So after DataStore in this case.

And that's of course the same notation you saw up here,

but there is an important difference.

Here in this array scenario,

I'm using an existing generic type,

the array type.

Here, this is how it's defined internally,

and I'm telling it which concrete other type

we'll use for this specific value for this array here.

Now down here,

I'm not using an existing generic type

to tell it with which kind of data it will work together.

Instead, I'm setting up a custom generic type.

And therefore here between those angle brackets,

we don't pass string or number,

but instead here we set up a placeholder

for the concrete type

with which this DataStore type can then be used later on

when we use it as we do here in line 7.

Here I'm using my custom type, here I'm defining it.

So here when we're defining it, I'm using a placeholder.

And very often you'll see an uppercase T

being used as a placeholder, T for type,

but you could use anything here.

So that would be a valid placeholder as well

as would be any other character.

But T is a common convention.

By the way, you can also accept multiple placeholders here

if you're building a more complex type

that needs to work together with multiple other types.

But to get started, we'll just use one, one placeholder, T.

And it's now this placeholder, which you can use inside

of this type definition.

So for example, here, instead of hard coding this

to string or number, we can use this placeholder here.

And with that I'm simply saying

that DataStore can now be used with some other type

and it's then this other type that will be the type

of the value that's stored under that property.

And what this allows me to do is it allows me

to go down here to the place where I'm using my type.

And now we add the angle brackets here as well,

just as we did with array.

When using the type, you also add the angle brackets.

But here between these angle brackets,

we now put in the concrete type value we want to use.

Here we have the placeholder,

but now here we put in the concrete type

we want to use like for example, string.

If we want to have a DataStore full of strings.

Or if we as in this example, want to allow strings

or Booleans, we can use a union type string or Boolean.

And with that, the error goes away.

And the benefit we now have due to us using

this generic type is that we got this

very flexible DataStore type,

which we can use on as many stores as we want.

And it's always then the place where we create that store

where we can then decide which concrete values will store

here in that object.

For example, here, I would have a DataStore

that only accepts string values .

Here, it's strings or Booleans.

And you can set up any store based on any

internally stored type you want.

And that is the benefit of generic types.

You can simply create more flexible types

where you don't have to decide about all the types

that will interact with the type at the point

where you're defining it,

but where you can instead decide such things

at the point where you're using it.

And that's sometimes a useful pattern.