Now, you're not limited
to building generic types
as we're doing it here with DataStore.
Instead, you can also build generic functions.
For example, we could build a merge function,
which should accept two parameters, let's say.
And the idea is that these two parameters
get merged together, let's say simply into an array.
Obviously, this is kind of a redundant function,
but it's just a simple demo.
We could be doing anything in here,
including more complex tasks.
Now, we're facing one problem here though,
and that problem is that we don't know necessarily
in advance which kinds of values we'll get here.
Will a and b be strings, numbers, Booleans, objects?
Will a be a string and b be an object?
It's all possible.
Therefore, of course, we could use the any type.
That would allow us to use this merge function
with all kinds of values but we'll also face a problem then.
If I create an ids constant or variable here
and I merge one and two,
I'm getting back a value that is of type any array,
so an array full of anything, which makes sense
because TypeScript only knows that a and b
will be any kind of value.
Therefore, merge returns an array full
of any kinds of values.
And as a consequence, if I work with the values
that have emerged here, I get no auto completion.
TypeScript doesn't know which kinds
of values these are if I'm working with numbers,
with strings, it doesn't know that
because the concrete type information
that these here are numbers gets lost
after merge is done with those values due
to us setting these parameters to any here.
That's simply how TypeScript works.
And that's therefore another scenario where generic types
or where this generics feature can help us
because we can turn this function,
this merge function here into a generic function.
And we do this in the same way
that we turned this DataStore type here
into a generic type.
We add angle brackets after the function name,
and then between those angle brackets,
we specify a placeholder, for example, T again.
And it's the placeholder,
not a concrete type-like string here
because here we're defining our generic function.
Here we don't know the exact kind
of value we'll eventually work with yet.
Instead, merge should be a function that can be used
with all kinds of value types, hence this type placeholder
because it's now this type placeholder that we'll use here
for the parameters instead of any.
As a result, TypeScript understands
that merge will return an array full of values
that have the type of our placeholder here.
Therefore, when we use merge, we can add the angle brackets
and add number here since I'm passing some numbers to merge.
And consequently, TypeScript understands
that ids is an array of numbers
because number is the concrete value type we plugged in
for our type placeholder here.
Now, even better than that, in situations like this,
you can omit those angle brackets here.
You can also add them as you saw, but you can omit them
because TypeScript is able to infer
that merge will return an array of numbers here
because it simply takes a look at the value types
of the two arguments you're passing to merge.
Since you're using the placeholder here
for these parameters, TypeScript understands
that if you're passing in numbers here, number is the type
that's being used for the placeholder in this place
when using the merge function like this.
And quite often when working with generics,
you'll be able to rely on TypeScript's inferential skills.
It has quite good inference.
Indeed here with the array example up there,
we also could have omitted this.
TypeScript would've inferred that this is an array full
of strings without our explicit annotation here as well.
I just added it to show you this example,
but TypeScript is good at inferring types
when using with generic types.
And that's therefore a good example for a generic function
and how you could build such a function.
