Now, sometimes when working

with Generic types and when building Generic functions

and so on, you also might want to allow some flexibility,

but you might not be happy with getting

all kinds of values for those placeholders.

For example, what if we had a function called mergeObj?

So, merge Object.

And the idea is that we get two values here

and we, again, merge them,

but I wanna merge them into a new object.

By creating a new object like this

and by then using the standard JavaScript spread operator

to spread all the properties

of the first value into this object

and all the properties of the second value.

That might be a utility function we wanna build.

Now, of course, again, the types are missing here

and we could therefore use any,

but, again, for the reasons mentioned before,

that's not ideal.

It's also not ideal, by the way,

because here in this case, when I use merge object

and I try to merge to numbers like this,

that won't work with the spread operator.

If you console lock the result of merging this here,

and you then compile this code,

and you then run the compiled JavaScript file,

you'll see an empty object will be output here,

because merging two numbers doesn't really do anything

when doing it like this.

So, any is not a great choice here.

Now, again, we can use a placeholder,

we can turn this into a Generic function

and use

T like this.

We could also use multiple placeholders,

but let's start with one.

Now, with that, we can still use

this function like this though,

and that might be exactly the kind

of thing we don't wanna allow.

We might be happy here with getting

different kinds of values, but not all kinds of values.

And that's why TypeScript allows you

to add a so-called constraint to your placeholders,

to your Generic type parameters as they're also called.

Because these things here, these placeholders,

are essentially parameters

for the Generic type you are building.

And you do add a constraint here

by adding the extends keyword.

A special keyword provided

by TypeScript here in this context

to allow you to define a constraint for this placeholder.

Essentially, extends tells TypeScript that the actual type

that will be used here when using merge object,

so it will be used for these parameters in the end,

must extend a certain other type of your choice.

For example, number.

That it must be something

that has something to do with the number type

to put it like this.

And as a result, if I were to add number here,

I'd get an error that the spread operator

makes no sense when being used on a number.

Because, indeed, here I don't want number,

this was just an example.

Instead, here we could say

that we want to extend the object type.

This tells TypeScript that the actual type

that will be used here must be some object,

any kind of object, but it has to be an object.

A number doesn't qualify.

Hence, I'm getting this error here

that a value of type number is not an object.

Instead, now we could pass an object here

where we have, like, a username, let's say,

and then we could pass a second object here

where we had, like, a H,

so that we're feeding two objects into merge object.

