Now, one interesting thing you'll see

is that the inferred type here is rather complex.

Now it's a union type of multiple different objects,

and the reason for that

is that I'm using one single type placeholder T

for two parameters

and I'm then passing two different objects

into merge object.

Therefore, we actually have two values

of two different kind of object types.

Sure, they're both objects,

but the concrete object types are different.

The first object is a object

with a property called username, which holds a string.

And the second object is a totally different object,

which has a age property of type number.

TypeScript could throw an error,

therefore, that we have one placeholder,

but two different types here, but it doesn't do that.

Instead, it decides that we have probably one shared type

that's common to both objects,

and that would be an object that has both a username

and an age property,

but username can be string or undefined,

and age can be a number or undefined.

That's the only way of making both

of these values work based on one shared type,

and that's why we have such a complex inferred type here.

Now therefore, what we could do here

is we could add a second placeholder U,

which should also extend object

and which we use for the second parameter like this.

With that, the inferred type is still not trivial,

but definitely a bit less to read.

Now this essentially says

that we have two different object types passed

into merge object and we get back a new object type,

which is the combination of these two objects.

So an intersection type of these two object types

in the end,

that's what we're getting back from merge object.

And with that, long story short,

we built a generic merge object function,

which uses multiple placeholders

that do allow all kinds of different object types

but that need object types

that do not work with numbers, strings

or anything like that.

And therefore, type constraints

as we have them here are another crucial feature

when working with generic types or generic functions

or anything like that.

