So, here, I'm in a brand new empty project,

and as before in earlier sections,

I'll start by running tsc --init

to create such a tsconfig.json file

and I'll keep all the default settings here

except for the target,

which I'll bump up a little bit

to target more modern browsers

if we were to run this in a browser,

though I actually won't do that,

I'll run it with Node.js.

But nonetheless, it's something I typically do

when creating new TypeScript projects.

Okay, so, with that tsconfig.json file created,

I'll start by adding a linked-list.ts file here

to this project.

And it's in this linked-list TypeScript file where I wanna,

well, create that linked list data structure.

And I'll do that with help of classes.

You wouldn't have to do that,

you could also build it just with some global variable

or constant and then some functions to change that.

But here, I'll work with a class

and I'll name it LinkedList,

which sounds like a sensible name in my opinion,

since that's the kind of data structure I wanna build.

Now, inside of that LinkedList,

I then want to store the head,

the starting element of that linked list, so to say.

If you recall that slide,

I need to store at least one node in that linked list,

and then this node will point at the next node,

and that node will point at yet the next node, and so on.

But I need to store one node, the root node,

if you wanna call it like this, in that LinkedList here.

So, therefore here, I'll add a property named root.

We could add public here to be explicit about the fact

that it can be accessed from anywhere

where this LinkedList object

that's created based on this class is used.

We could make it private so that it can only be used

from inside this class, or omit that,

and in that case, it will be public automatically.

Here, however, I'll go for private, private root.

And I also wanted to find the type of value

that will be stored under that root property.

And as mentioned, I wanna store such a node,

such a data container under that property.

Therefore, I'll actually create a second class.

ListNode could be the name,

which will describe such an individual node,

so which we'll use to instantiate such nodes later.

Now. I'll finish this class later.

For the moment, I just wanna define it

so that I can use it as a type here

so that my root property holds such a list node.

Now, with that, I'm getting an error,

because no value is assigned here.

And therefore, I'll fix this by adding a question mark here,

which makes this an optional property

so that undefined is a valid value for this property,

and initially it will be undefined,

which is why now the error goes away,

because we're happy with undefined now.

I'll also add a second property here,

which I'll name length,

which should simply store the number of nodes

that have been added here

because there is no easy

or efficient way of finding out

without counting all the nodes.

If you want to know the length,

which is I'll store it here in a separate property

so that we can quickly retrieve that information

without counting all the nodes every time

we wanna know how many we have.

So, I got two private properties in here,

and as you learned, private is a TypeScript feature.

Classes aren't.

They exist in JavaScript too without TypeScript.

But this private annotation,

that is actually TypeScript.

And just to be very clear about what it does,

it makes sure that if you instantiate this LinkedList,

like this, which is the standard JavaScript syntax

for instantiating a class, if you do that,

you can't access root or length.

You would get an error,

because these are private properties.

So, that's the idea.

And that's therefore the very basic starting setup

of these classes, but of course,

the entire logic is missing.

And that's therefore what we'll, step by step, work on next.

