Now we can improve this add method though,

because at the moment we're always looping

through all our nodes whenever we want to add a new node.

And this is really some work we can avoid here.

We can avoid it by not just storing the root node

but also the tail node, which also could be undefined.

So that we don't just store the first node,

but also the last node in the linked list

because we need that last node

whenever we want to add a new node at the end.

With this addition made here,

we can go back to this add method.

And then here, instead of using this while loop,

and instead of using this approach here altogether,

we can reach out to our tail node

and then set the next property of that tail node

equal to the node, to the new node here.

Now I'm getting an error here though,

and the error in the end is related to the fact

that my IDE added this question mark here automatically,

which is required because tail may be undefined.

It is undefined initially,

so accessing next here is not safe.

And indeed at the moment this tail would never be set

because I only set the root node

when I insert a node for the first time.

Of course, here, when it is the first node that's inserted,

I should set tail to the very same node

because the root node,

the initial node is also the last node

if it's the first node that's inserted.

With that, however,

I know that if we have at least one node,

this tail will be set.

So I know with certainty

that here, this tail will not be undefined.

I can also clarify this by adding an extra check here

to make sure that we make it into this first branch

of this if check if this root is faulty

or if this tail is faulty,

and typically they should both be faulty at the same time.

With that, TypeScript is happy about this line of code.

And with that, we have a more efficient way

of updating that last node

and adding that new node to this list of nodes

because now we always update the next property

of the tail node to the newly inserted node.

This also means that thereafter

we need to set the tail to this new node though

so that the newly inserted node

is now also the new tail node.

First, we update the next property of the old tail node

and set it to the new node,

but then we also set that new node as a value

for the tail node, so we make sure

that we store the correct node

as the tail node in the linked list after adding this value.

And with that, we now have a pretty efficient way

of storing this new node in this linked list data structure.

