So we did now work on this linked list

quite a bit already.

We're not done yet, but we added some features

and most importantly, we practiced working with classes,

properties, and generic types.

Now, I also want to be able to output some information

about this linked list.

And since root, tail, and the length are all private,

I can't do this from outside the class.

I can't learn anything about this number list here.

I can only call add.

So in order to get some information,

I'll add some helper methods here that give me information,

like get number of elements, that could be a method

which should simply return this length.

Of course, we could also simply make length public,

but to show you the difference between private

and public properties, this is a good practice

because this here allows me to use a private property

because I'm inside in the class.

But I'll then be able to use this method

outside of the class because this here

is a public method since it

hasn't been annotated with private.

Now it would be a private method,

now it's public again.

So that's one piece of information I want to get.

Another piece of information is simply

the list of all values, let's say.

And for that we could add a print method here,

which has the job of going through all the nodes

and outputting all the values of all the nodes.

And for that, I'll use the approach I showed you earlier

because now I wanna loop through all nodes

and I'll start with the root node

and store it in a variable called current.

And then I'll loop through current,

not current next year, but instead current

because I want to keep on looping

until current itself is false,

because now in here I'll console log current.value

and I'll update current to current.next

until that is undefined and then the loop will stop.

And with that added, we can now use that number list here

and call add and add 10,

and maybe thereafter 5,

and then maybe -3.

And then console log number list,

get number of elements

followed by calling numberlist.print.

And if we do all that, we should be able to compile

and run that code

and at least add some values to our first linked list here.

So for here, I'm opening my terminal.

I'm running TSC, which I can,

because we have the tsconfig.json file here

that compiles the code.

And that compiled code, again, looks pretty similar

to what we had before.

But for example here, the private keyword is gone

because as I mentioned, that was a TypeScript feature.

The generic type annotation is also gone

because that also was TypeScript.

But with that, we can run this linked-list.js file.

And we got our length being locked here

because that's the first thing I output here.

And then we got the list elements being locked here

due to the print method.

And we add 10, 5, and-3 in this order.

So the order is correct here, as you can tell.

