So here was a basic type of example,
but of course here we could have just written string
because we know that username holds a string value.
And if we wanted for whatever reason,
assign a custom type alias to that built in string type
and use that instead of string,
we could do it like this
instead of using the TypeScript type of operator.
But let's say you are having a more complex value.
Let's say you have a settings object.
So here I'm not defining any type.
I have a settings JavaScript object instead.
And let's say in there you have a difficulty property,
which maybe holds easy as a value,
a min level which holds 10,
a did start boolean, which might be false,
and a players array,
which could be an array with two strings.
So you might have this JavaScript object
in your application in some place.
And now let's say you want
to write the type that describes this object
so that you could use it on some function parameters
somewhere else in your code, for example.
Well, of course you could add a new type settings like this
and then you could create an object type as you learned it,
create a new object,
and then make sure you got all the keys
that are up there without introducing a typo.
So difficulty is string,
min level is a number, and so on.
You could do that and that would then allow you,
if you completed this type,
which I haven't yet, that would then allow you
to add a function
load data where you might expect to get some settings,
which are of that settings type,
and where you then do something
and you could then call that function
and pass these settings here to that function
and work with that data in there.
And again, we should complete this object type.
I just didn't do that here
because manually typing
that object type based on some value, which we already have,
is a bit annoying and also error prone.
It's easy to introduce a typo here,
which might then cause some problems further down
in your code, somewhere else in your code.
And that's why you could instead use the type
of operator here, then pass the settings,
constant in this case here, to it so to say.
And the type settings here
will then automatically be derived for you by TypeScript,
thanks to Typescripts type of operator here.
So in this case, TypeScript would infer
that settings is a object type,
which has a difficulty property,
which holds a value of type string and so on.
You see all the other key value pairs
or key value type descriptions
if you want to call it like this here.
And that's a more useful scenario
for using this type of operator.
And you wouldn't even have
to create a custom settings type if you don't want it to.
You could instead also use the type
of operator here in the parameter list.
You just would need to make sure
that you don't have the same parameter name
as you have a value name here.
But you could then use type of here,
you don't have to use it in conjunction
with the type keyword.
This is not required.
You can use it outside of type alias
and custom types as well.
And that's therefore another useful feature
offered by TypeScript,
which allows you to derive types from values.
