So what's the benefit of this keyof operator?
Where would this be useful?
Well, for example, if you wanted
to create a utility function called getProp, let's say,
this should be a function which expects two parameters,
an object and a key.
And the idea of this function is
that it then extracts the value stored under that key
using this regular JavaScript syntax here.
So that's not TypeScript.
This is normal JavaScript syntax
for dynamically extracting some value
based on some key from some object.
So you could extract a value like this.
And then here in this utility function,
which could be part of our library or framework
or application we're building,
we might wanna check if val is undefined
or if val is null.
And in those cases, instead of returning undefined or null,
which we would do if we would return val
without that if check.
Instead, if we make it into the if check,
we might want to throw a new error,
'Accessing undefined or null value',
because this might then help us write better code
in other parts of our application.
If we can use this utility function with the knowledge
that it will never return undefined or null,
because in those cases, it would throw an error.
So having a utility function like this could be useful
in certain applications.
But how should we now type these parameters?
Well, we might want to turn getProp
into a generic function here
so that we can use it with any object,
and we don't have to define
how these objects should look like right now
when defining this function.
So we could use this Generic T placeholder here for object.
We might wanna make sure that we get some object though,
and not a number or string.
So we can use extends object
and you learned about Generic types
and the extends keyword in the previous section, of course.
So in case this doesn't tell you anything,
definitely revisit that previous section.
So that would be one placeholder we might want to use.
But now for the key here, you might already guess it,
we only wanna allow keys that exist in that object
that we're getting as a first parameter.
And that's where the keyof operator
or this keyof TypeScript feature can help us.
We can add a second placeholder to this Generic function,
a second type placeholder
and name it K or U, doesn't matter.
And we want to use that for the key.
But now this shouldn't be any kind of value of any type.
Instead, U should extend the list of keys of our object,
which is stored in that T placeholder.
So I'm aware that this looks pretty complex now,
but in the end, it isn't that difficult.
We're just saying that we have two placeholders,
two type placeholders in this getProp function
and we use them for the first and second parameters
so that these two parameters are of different types.
The first placeholder simply says that we want some object.
So the value for the object parameter should be some object.
Now the value for the key though,
should be one of the keys of our object
and that's what we're saying here,
that this type of value we're getting
for the second parameter must be a type
that extends the list of keys of the first parameter value.
So of the object we're getting for the first parameter.
That's what we're saying here.
And with that all done,
we could create a new constant here,
user, for example, to keep it simple again,
where we might have some name and some age, doesn't matter.
And we could then call getProp to extract the value
and pass user to getProp,
and then as a second parameter,
you see we have to pass a string,
which is one of the two keys we have in that object.
For example, age,
and now val would be a number.
We get all this inference
due to how we wrote this getProp function.
And of course, we can use the getProp function
with any values now,
not just with user objects that have this shape.
We could have some random data object
which has an ID, which is a number maybe,
which has a boolean, let's say,
and which maybe has a nested array
of random numbers like this.
And even with that, we could call getProp,
pass the data to it,
and then get assistance when extracting values.
For example, the isStored value
and TypeScript would infer that isStored is a boolean.
And that's an example
where the keyof operator is pretty useful
because it in this case, allows you
to kind of link these two placeholders together
by saying that the second placeholder, U, the type
that will be inserted for that placeholder
should be one of the keys of the value that's received
for the first placeholder, for T in this example.
