There also is a very useful variation

of that indexed access type feature here.

Here, we're using it with the property key permissions

to extract the type that's stored for that property.

And that is a very common way of using this feature,

but you are not limited to using it

with property names like permissions or age or name

or whatever else you have in your object.

Instead, you can also use it on arrays

to extract the value type of the elements

that are stored in the array.

For example, also here, Perms is an array

of objects that have this shape.

So the Perms type describes an array type

where the array holds objects of this shape.

Now, what if I wanted a Perm type that describes the shape

of an individual permission?

So not of an array of permissions,

but just of this permission object

without the square brackets, so to say.

Of course, again, we could copy and paste it,

but for the reasons mentioned before,

I don't wanna do that here.

Well, what you can do instead is use your array type Perms,

stores an array.

Use square brackets, but now use number here,

the number type identifier.

This tells TypeScript that you want to extract

the type of the elements that are stored

for the different indexes

in the array you are accessing here.

So in the Perms array, in the permissions array.

And therefore Perm now has just the object type

without the square brackets

because we're using this special TypeScript syntax

where we put number between those square brackets

to access the type of the value that's stored in an array.

And of course, this feature does not just work

for this nested object array type here.

You could also have a Names type,

which is simply a string array,

so a very simple string array.

And then if you wanted to get the type of value

that's stored in that array,

just the type of value that's stored in there,

we of course know that it will be string.

But you could also use this feature I just explained,

Names, square bracket, number,

to let TypeScript look into this array type here

and take a look at the type of the values

that will be stored in that array,

and then give you just that value type.

Therefore Name would be string in this case

because it is an array of strings.

So that's a very useful variation

or extension of this indexed access type feature.

You can use it on properties with property names

to get the types of values that are expected

for those properties.

But you can also use it

with this square bracket number syntax here to get the types

of the values that are stored in some array.

And again, we're all in TypeScript land here.

This is all not runtime JavaScript code.

This is all TypeScript code instead.

If I were to compile this indexed-access-types.ts file here,

you would notice that it's essentially an empty file

because again, there's nothing JavaScript-ish in there.

I'm just defining a bunch of types here.

