Another kind of derived type
or feature for deriving types is the mapped-types feature
offered by TypeScript.
And the idea behind mapped-types
is that you have a relatively simple
and straightforward way of converting one object type
to another kind of object type.
And here's an example.
Let's say you are describing a type,
maybe called Operations, which in the end is there
to define some object type.
Let's say an object type
where you have two methods in that object,
an add method, which maybe takes two parameters
of type number A and B, and which returns a number,
and a subtract method, which does the same essentially.
It takes two parameters of type number
and returns a number.
And just again, to be very clear,
we're defining a type here, not an object value.
We're defining an object type instead.
And add and subtract are in the end two properties
that store functions as values.
Hence, they become methods.
We have the add and subtract method.
And here we have regular function type definitions
as you learned it earlier in the course.
We're defining the parameter list
and the types of the parameters
and then the return value of that function.
And we could then create a new variable, mathOperations,
which is of type Operations, so which uses this type.
And here we would then create an object value.
And in order to satisfy this type definition,
we now need to add these two methods.
A add method, which takes these two parameters,
A and B, which are of type number,
and which then returns a number, for example,
by adding A and B.
And then we also must add a subtract method,
which also takes two parameters of type number
and then returns a number, for example, like this.
So that would be a way of using this operations type.
But of course that's really nothing new.
We've worked with object types before.
But now let's say you want to add a new additional type
Results could be the name,
which should have a similar shape, add and subtract,
but here you want to store just the results
of these operations, not the methods, not the functions.
So you wanna store just a number for both.
Of course you could define results like this
and you could then use it
by adding a new variable or constant,
mathResults, which uses the Results type.
And here you then would have your object
where you add the add property,
reach out to the mathOperations variable
and call add with two numbers, for example,
and store a value for subtract by calling
mathOperations.subtract and passing two numbers to it.
That would be a way of using the Results type
to define such an object.
Again, this is nothing new.
But, as you can see here,
this results object type is kind of
related to this operations object type.
It has the same property names here
and it then just stores the results
of calling these methods.
Of course here it's a very simple type,
so defining it like this is no problem.
But if this would be a more complex object,
it could become annoying to define it like this
if it's closely related to another object.
And that's exactly where mapped-types can help you.
Because instead of manually defining
this object type like this,
you can actually turn this Results type
into a generic type
by adding such a generic type parameter called T,
in this example.
And then you can add dynamic properties to this object type
by basing them on the property names
of some other object type.
And the syntax for doing so is
to add another type placeholder here,
which was not defined between those angle brackets.
And that could be K, or key, it doesn't matter,
in keyof T.
So I'm using that keyof TypeScript operator
I introduced earlier
to get all the keys, all the property names
of this T parameter here, of this T placeholder,
so of the concrete type we get for T,
assuming that it will be an object type.
And then we can use this in operator,
which is also offered by TypeScript,
in this place to go through all those keys
and map them to keys in this object type
so that we add the same keys
that we got on this incoming object type here,
whichever that will be, in this object type.
We simply add all the keys to that object type.
And we then set the type of value that will be stored
for all those keys to any type of our choice.
For example, number or to a union type,
like number or string, whatever you need.
But here I'll use number
because I know that my results type should simply store
a bunch of numbers for different operations
that are defined in some other object.
Well, and with that we created a mapped- type in the end.
This here is a mapped-type.
We're taking all the properties of some other object type
and we're adding them with a clearly defined value type
to this object type.
And this object type is
therefore based on this first object type
or on whichever object type is passed in
for this type parameter.
So here we can use it down here
by adding the angle brackets when using results,
and by then in our case here, passing this operations type
for this type placeholder to Results, like this.
And with that TypeScript, we'll understand
that mathResults should be an object type of this shape,
which in the end will contain all the keys
of this type that we're passing in here
between the angle brackets.
So it will be an object that has a add and subtract key,
but the value stored for both keys will be number
because that's what we define in our results type here.
And as a result, we can use our results type in conjunction
with the operations type, like this, to store this object.
And therefore this mapped-type feature can be very useful
if you wanna base one type, one object type, I should say,
on some other object type.
