Now, mapped types, of course,

like all the features we cover in this section here,

are a feature you won't need all the time

for all your projects,

but they can come in handy in certain situations.

They also allow you to do more than just map some properties

to some value type as we're doing it here.

Specifically, they also allow you to, for example,

make properties optional,

even though if they're not optional

in the original type you're mapping from or vice versa.

They allow you to make properties non-optional

if they have been optional before,

and I'll start by showing you

how to make properties optional.

Right, now we're simply mapping all the properties

of the incoming type, so of the operations type,

for example, to this new object,

and since none of these two properties, add and subtract,

are optional here, none of them are optional here either,

so that means that when we define the math results,

omitting subtract gives us an error,

because subtract is missing, but required.

Now, what if we want more flexibility in our results?

Sure, we might want to enforce

that all these operations are defined,

but we might not want to force the developer

that uses the results type

to also perform all these operations.

We might be fine with just storing the result

of adding or subtracting numbers.

Well, you can simply add a question mark here

in your mapped type,

and that makes all these properties you're mapping

into this object type here optional.

So by adding this question mark here,

it is now valid to omit subtract or, of course, add.

That is now allowed.

Now, the opposite would also work.

Let's say add and subtract were actually optional methods.

Now we get an error down here,

because we're calling a method

that potentially doesn't exist,

so we would need to handle this,

but let's ignore this for now.

Let's instead say that we want to enforce the add

and subtract keys, for whatever reason, in this object.

At the moment, since they're optional in operations,

they would be optional here in results as well

because we're mapping those properties

with all their configuration, so to say,

into this object type.

So as a consequence, we don't need to define add

or subtract in math results.

Defining neither of these would be fine,

since add and subtract are optional up here.

Now, if you wanna remove that optionality,

you can do so by adding minus question mark here.

Now, this definitely looks weird,

but this is TypeScript's syntax

for removing the optional flag

when working with mapped types, as we're doing it here.

With that minus question mark added here,

you see I'm getting an error down here telling me

that I am missing add and subtract,

these two required properties,

and only if I add them like this,

only then is this error gone.

Now, I got the error again that I'm calling methods

that potentially don't exist,

but we can ignore this for this example.

The key takeaway here

is that you can remove the optional flag like this.

Here, however, I'll remove the question mark

in the operations type

and instead map these required method types here

to be optional properties in the results type,

as we had it before.

Now, one other kind of mapping you can perform

is that you can make properties read only

or remove the read only flag when working with mapped types.

For example here,

they're currently not read only in operations,

which means we could overwrite the value stored in add.

We could assign a new function for this add property

or the subtract property,

but if we want to make the results read only

so that they can't be changed once they have been set,

we can do so by adding the read only flag

in front of this property here.

Now, as a little side note,

you can always add the read only flag

when defining an object type

to make a property or method read only

so that it can't be overwritten once it has been defined.

This is not exclusive to mapped types,

but what is exclusive to mapped types,

or what is a mapped type specific feature, so to say,

is that you can map properties or methods

that were not read only to be read only by adding read only

in front of your property mapping syntax here.

And by doing so, this works as before,

but if we then would try to change add to something else,

we would get an error that we can't do so

because it's a read only property.

And just to make sure that this really works,

if we were to remove the read-only modifier here

in this mapped type, you would see that now down there,

the error went away, so that really makes a difference.

Now, you can also remove the read only flag,

so let's say we already had read only here

on the add and subtract method.

In that case, we would have read only properties

in the mapped type as well, because when we map properties,

we always also take their flags

and use them, too, in the mapped type,

so the add and subtract properties in this type

would be read only if they are read only

in the original type, and therefore,

we would get this error.

But now let's say we wanna remove

the read only configuration.

Well, you can do so,

just as you could with the question mark,

you can add minus read only here,

which again, might look weird,

but this is TypeScript's way of saying

that the read only flag should be removed

for these mapped properties.

So they are read only here in the original type,

but we removed this flag in the mapped object type,

and as a result, we can overwrite add here.

Now, not something I need here,

but something you should know,

which is why I showed it to you.

