Another very interesting kind of type

and type manipulation offered by TypeScript

are template literal types,

and this name, maybe like all these features,

might sound a bit weird.

What are template literal types?

Well, first, before diving into template literal types,

let's dive into template literals,

or template literal values, in vanilla JavaScript,

which is a feature that exists totally independent

of TypeScript, because in vanilla JavaScript,

you could have, let's say, a username, Max,

and here, I'm getting an error,

because I'm already using this identifier

in some other file here in this project,

so I'll rename it to main username here

to avoid this naming conflict,

and then let's say you have some string

where this variable should be used, like greeting,

where you want to say "Hi there," and then main username.

Of course, you could concatenate strings like this.

That would work, but in vanilla JavaScript,

you can also create a template literal instead

and inject the value that's stored in this constant here

into this string by replacing the quotes with backticks,

and that's a special character on your keyboard.

These are not single quotes, these are backticks,

a special character, and a special JavaScript feature,

because by using backticks, you still create a string,

but you create a string

where you can now use this syntax here,

dollar sign, curly braces,

to inject a value into the string

instead of using string concatenation

or something like this.

And here, you can inject any expression in here,

like one plus one or simply main username.

So this will inject main username into the string

and create a new string that contains the value

of this constant.

And that's just JavaScript,

has nothing to do with TypeScript,

but I added this short introduction here

because it turns out that TypeScript actually offers a type,

not a value, but a type that works in a very similar way,

and to explore this type, let me first introduce you

to a potential problem you might face

in certain TypeScript projects.

Let's say you have some literal types,

like read permissions, which could be no read or read,

so a union type of two string literal types,

and you also might have write permissions,

which could be no write and write, like this.

And then you might want to create a new type,

file permissions, which in the end,

contains all possible combinations, and with that,

I don't mean that we add another union type like this,

but instead, I want to have new string literals

here in file permissions

which combine all these string literal values.

So here, I want to have values like no read write

to kind of describe the state

where a user can't read a file, but can write to it,

read no write, no read no write, and read write.

I wanna have all these combinations in file permissions,

combinations of all these string literal values,

of all the text values, if you wanna call them like this,

that are stored in the string literal types up here.

Well, of course, we could do it by hand like this,

but we could instead also use

this template literal type feature offered by TypeScript,

and you do that by adding the backticks here again,

but now we're not defining some JavaScript value here.

Instead, we're in TypeScript land,

because we're on the right side of the equal sign

after using the type keyword,

so we are defining a type here.

Nonetheless, we use the backtick characters here,

and then you can use the same syntax you saw before

in the JavaScript example, dollar sign, curly braces,

to inject some other type here into this string type

to ultimately convert it to a string type, of course.

For example, here, you can inject read permissions,

so this union type, which consists

of two string literal types,

then maybe a dash or an underscore,

doesn't matter, it's up to you,

but here, I'll go for a dash, and then in my case here,

I'll also inject write permissions.

And this is now a valid type definition,

even though it might not look like this.

But what this will do is it will force TypeScript

to create a new string literal type,

and since we're injecting union types here into our string,

it will actually get TypeScript

to create multiple new string literal types here,

and you can see them if you hover over file permissions.

You see, these are the kind of string literal types

that have been created by TypeScript,

so file permissions is now one big union type,

consisting of multiple string literal types,

created thanks to this feature here,

this template literal type feature.

And that's just one way of using this feature,

a common way, though.

Another situation where this template literal type feature

would be useful would be if you had some object type,

data file, for example,

where you might have some data, which is a string,

and maybe some permissions, which could be of that type

of file permissions, doesn't matter.

And now let's say you wanna add a new type,

data file events, that should contain a bunch of methods

where the method names are related

to these property names here.

Well, you could achieve this

by creating a new type, data file event names.

It's just a little helper type I'm creating here

to keep things simple,

and this helper type is now a template literal type

using the backtick character.

where we want to use the property names of data file,

which we can by injecting them here with key of data file.

This will give us the property names of the properties

of this object type.

That's what the key of operator does, as you learned,

and we can combine this with the word changed, for example.

What this will do is it will give us a union type

that contains data changed and permissions changed

as string literal types.

It's a union type of these two string literal types,

and these string literal types have been created

with the template literal type feature provided

by TypeScript, and it's a union type here

because we have multiple keys,

so multiple string literals are created,

just as multiple string literals have been created up here.

So now we have this union type of these names here,

of these string literals.

We can now use this here to create a mapped type

by using the square brackets,

and in this case, not some generic mapped type,

but instead, a very specific mapped type,

which is also possible, which does map these properties here

with new names to new values,

and this can be achieved by, again, using this in keyword

and some placeholder of your choice,

some name of your choice here, like key,

and then in data file event names.

So we're going through all the values

of this union type here, which is created

with help of key of and the template literal type feature,

and we're then adding these names here

as key names to this mapped type,

and then we can assign any value of our choice,

like, for example, that we wanna store some functions

as values here so that we could define

some event handler functions in this mapped type here

or in values that are based on that type,

because data file events is now an object type

that has these two properties which store functions

as values, and the property names are created

with help of this template literal type feature.

So another pretty advanced TypeScript feature,

which you, as always, won't need all the time,

and which can be tricky to wrap your head around at first,

but which can also be pretty useful,

as you can hopefully see here.

