So let's get started building a decorator.

And for that, I'm in a brand new, basically empty project

with a standard confiscation file.

And with my decorators.ts file, which is an empty code file.

Regarding the confiscation file

it's just important to note

that the experimental decorators setting is not set to true.

It's commented out here.

If it were set to true,

we would be building those older kinds of decorators.

But as mentioned, that will be covered

in a different section.

So here for this section, this is not set to true.

Well, and with that, in this decorators.ts file,

let's build a first decorator.

And since it is an object oriented programming

related feature, I'll actually start by adding a class

because we need a class to then attach a decorator to it.

And I'll build a simple person class

with let's say a name property, a public name property,

and a greet method where I simply say with console.log

hi, I am this.name.

So a very simple class because it is just a demo.

We're just getting started here.

And now let's build a decorator, let's say a decorator

that should be attached to the entire class

to interact with it, to interact with that code,

if you wanna call it like this.

And for that, we create a function

because decorators in JavaScript

are just functions.

That's super important.

A decorator is just a function,

but it is a function written in a certain way

receiving a certain amount of arguments and so on.

But it is just a function in the end.

And I'll name my function logger here,

but the name is up to you.

I'll just name it logger,

because I plan on creating a decorator that can be attached

to this class here

to log information about it, just to get started.

Now, this here is of course not a super useful function,

but it is a valid function.

And as I mentioned, decorators are functions.

So we can try attaching this function

as a decorator to this class.

And how do we do that?

Well, by adding something in front of this class,

either in the same line in front of it

or in the line before it, that's also fine.

And you then add something as a decorator

by adding the @ symbol.

That's an important symbol.

You have to use the @ symbol in order to add a decorator

to a class, a field, a method, or a getter or a setter.

And after this @ symbol,

you put the name of the function

you want to use as a decorator,

like logger here.

You don't execute it, you just point at it, so to say.

And you do add a decorator like this to a class,

for example, because decorators are a feature

as mentioned before, that's meant to interact with our code.

So it's code interacting with our code.

It's the logger function here, in this case,

interacting with the person class, potentially changing it

or changing its behavior.

That's the kind of things you could be doing

with decorators.

For example, there is an entire library called

class validator, which you could install

into your TypeScript project that exposes

a bunch of decorators,

which you can add to class properties, for example,

to add validation to those properties

so that whenever you assign a value

to one of these properties,

the validation rules you attach to that property

with help of the decorators provided by this library

will be executed.

That's the kind of things you can do with decorators,

and that's the idea behind decorators.

You can use this feature to attach logic to your code.

So that code interacts with other code

and the syntax for attaching a decorator

to the thing you want to interact with

through that decorator is that @ symbol

followed by the decorator name.

That's the general idea behind decorators.

Now, as you can tell, I'm getting an error here

that logger accepts too few arguments

to be used as a decorator.

So actually a pretty clear error message.

We have a function, that's good,

but it is not a valid decorator function.

It accepts too few arguments.

So we need to change this

and we need to accept more arguments here.

But how many, well, actually two,

if you're building an ECMAScript decorator.

For the experimental decorators, that will be different.

But you'll see that later.

For an ECMAScript decorator, it's two arguments.

And the first argument is the target of the decorator,

the thing you're attaching it to.

So in this case, this class.

Now, the type of target is a bit more complex

for the moment, I'll simply set it to any

to save some time here and we'll type it properly later.

Now as you can see, the error went away,

but actually you typically accept two arguments

because the second argument is a context object

that gives you extra information about the thing

you're attaching the decorator to.

So the target is the thing you're attaching it to.

So that is the class in this case.

The context is an object with information about that thing.

And that context object is of type class decorator context.

A type that's built into TypeScript.

And as you see, it's now still used

as a valid decorator without an error.

So that is now how we can define a valid class decorator.

And now we can do stuff in there,

for example, to get started.

We can console.log target,

and we can console.log context

to get an idea of what's inside of these two arguments.

I'll also add another console.log

and simply output logger decorator here.

And now let's save that.

And please note that I'm not instantiating that class.

I'm just defining it.

I have no other code in that file.

I'm not instantiating it.

I'm not doing anything else.

So theoretically, this program isn't too useful

and isn't doing much

because defining a class on its own doesn't do too much.

You typically need to use it to do useful stuff.

But here I'm just defining it

and I'm attaching this decorator.

But even though I'm not doing anything else,

you'll see that if I compile this code here,

if I execute this JavaScript file that's generated,

I get some output here.

I get logger decorator printed here, of course,

and then the class is printed here

because that's my target.

And then this context object here.

And as you see, that's an object that has a kind property

that tells me that the kind of target

I'm attaching the decorator to is class.

But the name of that class is person.

A metadata object, which could hold extra information

about the thing you're attaching the decorator to.

But that's not the case here.

And an add initializer function,

which will become important later.

So that's now a first decorator created and added.

But what can we now do with such a decorator?

