So we created a first decorator

and we added it to this class,

and we're logging information about the class

at the point of time where it's defined in the end,

but what else can we do with that logger decorator here?

Well, you can also use decorators

to change the thing you are attaching them to.

So to change the class, for example,

and how do you do that?

Well, by returning a new class,

a new class that's based on the old class in the end,

and you can do that with a syntax that might look strange,

but that is valid JavaScript code.

You can return an anonymous class

by using the class keyword here after the return keyword

and then "extends target."

So I'm not giving my class a name here.

Instead, I just extend the target

and I'm not giving my class a name here

because it's an anonymous class,

which I'm just creating temporarily to return it,

but then just as down here, you add curly braces

and between those curly braces,

you can put your extra class information.

For example, an age property which you set to 35.

However, as soon as I do that,

you'll see that I get an error down here,

a pretty complex error that in the end tells me that

the kind of class I'm returning

is not in line with the class I have here,

but we can fix this by improving our types up here

and by not using any.

What we should do instead is use a generic type,

maybe called "T" as we did before in this course

and this type must be based,

it must extend some other type, a class type.

So the thing we're using logger on should be a valid class

and in TypeScript, you can express that by writing "new"

and then a function type thereafter.

Might look weird using the new keyword here,

but that's how you can tell TypeScript

that you want to interact with a class

and then here, this function type in the end

represents the class constructor

and there, I want to be able to use my logger decorator

on any kind of class,

so I'm fine with accepting any amount of arguments,

which we can express like this,

using this rest parameters syntax here,

which yet means we have any amount of arguments

which are of any type.

That's what this syntax means.

It's a way of defining a function type

that does not care about how many arguments

of which type it receives

and it also will return any kind of value because again,

I don't know in advance to which kind of class

I want to attach this logger decorator.

So that's how you can express

that you wanna base your type "T" on some class

that accepts any kind of arguments in its constructor

where you then return any kind of value

and now it's this "T" type, this generic type,

which I use for target.

With that, you should see that

this arrow down here goes away.

So now we have this properly typed,

and now we're returning a new class

here inside of the logger function,

which means we're trying to replace this class

with our logger decorator here.

Now, in order to see if that works,

we can instantiate this class here

and then console log it,

and now let's compile this code and then execute it

and what you should see is that down here,

you indeed also have an age now

in that object that is created when instantiating the class,

age 35,

and of course, we don't have that in the person class here.

Instead, that's coming from this change here.

It's also worth noting of course, that as you can see,

the original class does not get replaced by that class here,

but in the end, we merged them, you could say.

So this age property is added

in addition to the name property,

and we therefore should also still be able

to call greet here.

If I compile that

and then run this code, this greeting is also printed here,

and that's where decorators can come in handy

because you can manipulate

the code to which you attach them.

Of course, this is just a demo here, just an example

and typically, you'll only need decorators

in more complex use cases

when writing more complex kinds of applications,

or libraries with classes,

but in certain situations,

that's why decorators can be a useful feature.

