Now, of course in this example I have here,
I'm returning a new class
that's based on the input class, so to say.
And I'm adding the age property.
Now, since my decorator is named logger,
that's probably not the kind of behavior you would expect.
So what I want to do instead here
is add the constructor function,
which I can add like this.
Accept any amount of arguments, of any type.
And then in there, first of all,
execute the constructor of the base class.
So of the person class, by forwarding all those arguments
by using the spread operator on this args rest parameter.
And then I want to console log, class constructor.
Because it's a logger decorator after all.
And here I just wanna log some information
at different points of time.
First, when the class is defined in the end
and the decorator is first executed,
but then also whenever a new instance
of the class is created.
And here I can also console log this
to log the concrete instance that has been created.
And by doing that, I can, for example, delete this code
and instead create a second, new person.
And if I do that and I compile the code
and I execute it, you see I'm getting a bunch
of logs down here, these logs.
And I'm getting them because I have my logs here
in this returned, class constructor.
And that makes a bit more sense
for a decorator named logger.
Now what you can also see here in those log messages
is that these different log statements are executed
at different points of time.
The text logger decorator, followed
by information about the target
and the context is actually, written to the log is output.
When that class definition is parsed
by JavaScript, the text class constructor
and the information about the concrete class instance
on the other hand, is output multiple times.
Once for every instantiation of the class.
So there is a timing difference here
between class definition where the logger decorator
is attached and parsed and class instantiation
where the constructor is executed.
That's just all the worth noting here.
The code directly in the decorator,
like these log statements where I log target
and context is executed right when the thing,
the decorator is attached to is defined.
So when the class is defined here.
