So that's how you can build
and use a decorator
and you can do anything you want with it in the end,
since you can return an updated version
of the thing you're attaching it to.
You can use it to add more properties, methods,
and that can make it a really powerful feature.
You could, for example, create a decorator
and share it as a library
so that other developers can use it
that enhances any kind of class it's added to
by adding extra methods to it or anything like that.
So that's really a powerful feature to consider
and be aware of.
Here, however, I'll leave it at that
and instead move on to a different kind
of decorator you can build
because as mentioned,
you don't just have class decorators,
instead you also have decorators
that can be added to methods or fields.
So let's build a method decorator here,
so a decorator that can be added to this greet method.
For that, I'll add a function here
because decorators are functions,
no matter which kind of decorator you're building,
and I'll name it autobind
and you'll see why soon.
Now again, it's just a regular function
and we can use it as a decorator
and attach it to the greet method
by adding it in front of it
in the same line or in the line
before it with the add symbol
and then the name of the function.
Again, I'm getting an error
that I'm accepting too few arguments
because just as before, I must accept a target.
And here the type of target will be function
because a method is just a function,
and function is a type built into TypeScript.
Alternatively, I could also define my own function type
and accept any amount of arguments here
and return anything.
Now with that, the error went away,
but just as before we'll also get a context object,
which here will be of type class method decorator context.
Well, and then again, inside of the function body
of this autobind decorator function,
we can do whatever we want.
We can log something whenever the decorator is executed,
so whenever it has been attached,
but we can also try manipulating the method
we're attaching it to.
But to get started,
I'll start by logging the target and the context
so that we can again see what's inside of that
and let me actually do that like this here.
Now with that, without any changes to the code down there,
I can compile this code, execute it,
and see a bunch of logs from before,
but it's the very first log that's my method decorator here
because the method gets initialized
before the class initialization is done.
That's why the decorator added to that method executes
before the class decorator executes
because all these decorators only execute once the thing
they have been attached to is done initializing.
And you see here, it's the greet function,
the greet method that's being logged,
and the context object then has a bit more information
than we had on the class context before.
We see that the kind
of thing the decorator is added to is a method,
that the name of that thing,
the name of that method is greet.
It's not a static method.
It would be if I added the static keyword in front of it,
but here it's not.
And it's also not a private method.
Now this access object here is actually an object
that gives us indirect access to the function
through has and get methods, but we don't need that here.
Instead, it's this add initializer method
that will become important soon.
Because at the moment,
this decorator of course isn't too useful,
but we're going to change this next.
