So let's make this autobind decorator

a bit more useful.

And let's also understand why I named it autobind

because this decorator should solve a certain kind

of problem you could sometimes encounter when working

with classes and objects in JavaScript.

And that's a problem related to the this keyword

and how JavaScript works.

Let's say I'm creating one object here, max.

And let's say for some reason I wanna store a pointer

to that greet method in a separate variable or constant.

We can do that like this, for example.

So I don't execute greet here, I just point at it,

and I store that pointer in a new constant here.

And this is something I might need to do in order

to then pass this method, this pointer at this method

as an argument to another function,

as a callback function, for example.

So that is something you sometimes need to do in JavaScript,

but you'll face a problem if you try to do it like this

because if I now execute greet, I will execute this method

because I'm pointing at it

but you will see that will not output the name.

Instead, if I try to execute greet like this

and I compile this and run this code,

I'm getting an error here.

Cannot read properties of undefined

when trying to read the name.

So when trying to access the name on this,

I'm getting an error.

And I did not get that before when using this kind of code.

So what is the problem here?

Well, the problem is related

to how the this keyword works in JavaScript.

It's not TypeScript specific at all.

Instead, the this keyword, in the end,

points to the thing on which this method is executed

or on which this function here is executed, I should say.

And when executing it like this,

then greet is executed on max.

So this refers to this instance of the Person class.

But when executing it like this,

greet is not directly executed on something

as it was before, and therefore, this is undefined,

and is not pointing at the max instance or anything else.

That's just how JavaScript works.

Now, you can solve this problem by binding this

to this Person class here,

and to all the objects that are created based on it.

JavaScript has a solution for that.

For example, in the Person class, you can add a constructor

and then in there say this.greet = this.greet.bind(this).

Might look a bit weird,

but with that you're saying,

"Hey, this greet method is always bound to this class

and the instances that are created based on it

because bind is a function that's built into JavaScript

that allows you to, you could say, pre-configure a function

for future execution.

And it allows you to define what this inside

of that function will refer to

when this function gets executed in the future.

And with this code added, for example,

this code down here will now work.

So if I now compile this and then run this,

you see now I'm not getting an error.

Instead I am outputting "Hi, I am Max."

So that's one way of solving this.

But, of course, it's a bit annoying if you have

to add code like this for every method

of every class you add to your application.

And that's where this decorator can come in handy

because you can solve this problem with this decorator,

as you will see.

