So now that we understood

which kind of problem I wanna solve here,

let's solve it with this decorator.

Because my idea is to put that code

which I had in the constructor here in this person class

in the last lecture into this decorator.

So that this decorator will automatically bind the method

it's attached to, to the class the method belongs to.

Now to do that, I'll remove this code here

and I'll use my ctx object,

and there, the addInitializer method.

Because this addInitializer method is a utility method

provided by this ctx object, which is passed

to the decorator automatically by JavaScript

to allow you to run code related to this thing

you are attaching the decorator to

after the surrounding thing,

so the surrounding class is done initializing.

So in the end you can think

of this addInitializer method here as a way

of giving you access to the constructor of the class

the method this decorator is added to belongs to.

For that you must pass a function to addInitializer

and it must be a normal function with the function keyword.

An arrow function won't work

because the this keyword behaves differently in there.

So it must be a normal, anonymous or not, does not matter,

function defined like this.

And this function will in the end be executed

as part of the class constructor now, you could say.

And therefore I can put the code,

which I had in the class constructor

in the last lecture into this function in the end.

Here, I can use the this keyword

and this will then refer to the class

to which this method belongs

to which I added this decorator.

And then dynamically access my method by using ctx.name

because that will be the name of my method.

And by setting this to this ctx.name, bind this.

So that's near the same code I had in the last lecture,

just accessing the method name dynamically

because this decorator can be added to any kind of method,

not just to the greet method.

So that's why I want to access the method name dynamically.

Now of course I'm getting an error here,

a type error related to the this keyword.

And to fix this, we just need to again,

change the type of auto bind a little bit.

To be precise, what you can do here

is add this as a argument to this function

and set this to type any.

That's a special syntax for telling TypeScript to what the

this keyword inside of function should be referring to.

And here I'm in the end saying

that it can refer to anything.

With that, this decorator can be added

without problems to greet.

And with that change made, with that code added here,

we can now easily add this decorator to any method we want

to ensure that that this keyword inside of this method

will always refer to the class the method belongs to.

So with the updated auto bind decorator added to greet,

this code down here should now work

without any further changes.

So if I compile this and execute this,

you see it works without errors and I'm getting this log.

And that is one possible use case

for such a method decorator.

