So you now saw
how to create a method decorator.
I also wanna mention that just as with the class decorator,
the method decorator can also return an updated version
of the method you are binding it to,
or a version that replaces the original method
if you want to.
For that, you just return a function here in your decorator
and it's now this function
that will replace the original method,
the original function the decorator was added to.
Now of course you can control
what should happen in this function
and for example, in that function,
we could simply execute the original target,
so the original function like this.
If you do that,
you are essentially wrapping the original function
with another function.
And you could, for example, add a extra log here,
executing original function or whatever.
And that can of course be a powerful pattern
because it allows you to preserve
and execute the original function,
but then add extra code to it
because again, decorators are about manipulating other code.
And here I'm enhancing the code of this method
by adding more code to it in front of it here or after it,
depends on what you wanna do.
And of course you're not limited to logging here.
You can also send HTDP requests right to a file,
do whatever you need to do.
One thing you should be careful about though is
that if you do execute target like this,
this code here in the initializer won't have any effect
because here I'm tweaking the method in the object
that's created based on a class.
Target, however,
is the original method without being tweaked
because this decorator is executed
after this discrete method is done initializing.
So when I bind this method
and then override the original method in the class,
target will be the old method,
simply due to how JavaScript works.
I'm overriding the method here with the bound version,
but the version I received here
before this decorator executed is the old version,
which has not been bound yet.
So if I do plan to overwrite my method here
and I do plan to execute the old method here
and that this keyword matters to me,
I actually should execute it in a way
that this keyword is set appropriately.
And you can do that by using apply, for example.
Apply is like bind,
but unlike bind, it does not prepare this function here
for future execution.
Instead it executes it right away.
But it gives you an opportunity
of changing what this keyword
inside of this function we'll refer to.
Simply by passing this to it
just as you did it with bind.
And just as before for this to work,
we should just make sure to tell TypeScript
that this can be referring to anything.
And that would then be the proper way
of executing this original method here,
if that this keyword matters.
With this change made, if we execute this code,
you see it works as before,
but I now also got this executing original function log here
simply because I replaced the original method.
