So this was a method, decorator.
The last kind of decorator I wanna explore together
with you is the field decorator,
so a decorator that can be added to fields like name here.
And for that, I'll create another new function
because a decorator is still a function
and I'll simply name it fieldLogger
because I wanna keep this decorator simple
and just log something again.
Now, like before, we add it with the @ symbol,
and like before,
we must accept the appropriate amount of arguments.
So for that here, we need a target and a context.
And the type of target here
for fields will actually always be undefined
because the decorator code will be executed
before the field is done initializing.
That's important.
That's why the target, the value of the field,
will be undefined.
The value of the greet method was the function,
the actual method function.
The value of the class
for the class decorator was the finished class.
But the value, the target of the field decorator,
fieldLogger here will be before it's been initialized
and it will therefore always be undefined.
That's just something to keep in mind.
When creating an ECMAScript field decorator,
target will be undefined.
The context, however, will not be undefined.
Instead that will be a ClassFieldDecoratorContext object.
And just as before, we can simply have a look at it,
both target and context
to understand what's inside there.
So with this code added
and with this code added here,
if you compile and execute this,
you will see that here at the very beginning,
undefined is logged, as I explained.
And then this context object here.
And in there we again have the kind of decorator,
the field name, if it's static or private,
an access object, which we can use to check,
get or set that field indirectly.
And an addInitializer function in case we wanted
to manipulate this field
from inside the constructor, so to say.
Now, just as with class and method decorators,
you can also return something here
to change the thing you're attaching the decorator to.
So to change the field or to be precise, it's value.
For that, here in fieldLogger,
you don't return a value though,
as you see with that, I would be getting an error.
Instead, you have to return a function,
and that's a function that will be executed
for you by JavaScript.
It is a function
that will actually receive the initial value
and that should return the value you wanna set instead.
So it is a function that will be executed for you
after the field to which this decorator has been attached,
has been initialized.
So if you need to get access to the actual value
that's stored in the field inside of your decorator,
you can do so with help of this returned function
because here you'll get the actual value.
So I can console.log(initialValue)
and I can then change it by simply returning a new value
that should be set instead.
And here I'll set this to an empty string, let's say.
And that's how you can overwrite the value
of the field the decorator is added to.
And this again, could be useful,
especially if you're doing more than I'm doing here,
if you're fetching some value from a database
or anything like that.
With those changes made here though,
you will see that again, if I compile this
and I execute it, I log, "Hi, I am" nothing down here
because I changed the field value to an empty string.
This Max log, which you see here,
that's the initial value being logged,
but then I return an empty string.
So that's the value that will be used in that instance
of the class I'm creating for all the other code,
like here for this greeting.
And that's therefore another powerful feature,
being able to change the value of a field with help
of a field decorator.
