So we now saw field decorators,
method decorators, and class decorators,
and you'll see even more decorators later
and more use cases
once we dive into experimental decorators.
But before we go there,
I wanna dive into another important concept
that you'll often see in conjunction with decorators,
and that's the concept of decorator factories.
And a decorator factory in the end is just a function
that produces a decorator.
And why would you do that?
Well, let's say here for my field logger decorator,
where I'm changing the default value,
I actually want to be able to set the default value,
the field value should be changed to
from this place in my coat here.
So when attaching the decorator.
And for that, I'll also change the name to replacer,
which makes a bit more sense if I'm replacing the value.
But that still doesn't give me
any way of changing the value.
So what I would want to do is execute this decorator
as a function here
and pass my new default value as a argument,
that would be nice to do.
Now, of course, I could also set it just here,
but we just have a basic example here.
So that's what I would like to be able to do.
Imagine that we're building a decorator
that sends AHTDP request.
In that case, I might wanna set my URL here.
But to keep things simple, I just wanna be able
to directly set the default value,
this value should be changed to.
However, this is not how I can use it,
because these decorator functions like logger, auto bind,
and replacer should not be executed by you in your code.
Instead, you should just point at them
and then JavaScript will in the end execute them for you.
So in order to be able to use this decorator like this,
you must wrap it in another function
into a factory function.
So for that, I'll add another function,
name it replacer too
and rename this replacer here to replacer decorator.
And I'll move this replacer decorator
into the replacer function now,
and I'll return it there
because by doing it like this,
when I execute this function,
I actually get the actual decorator function
that should be added here.
So I again point at a function that's added as a decorator
simply by wrapping it in another function.
I'm executing the outer function
and the returned value, the inner function,
the actual decorator function is therefore,
again, placed here, you could say,
standard Java script in the end.
And now here I can accept my in it value
of type string or of type any to be more flexible.
And then use this in it value down here,
or actually use a generic type here
to get a bit more type support.
And with that, I can set my initial value here.
So if I now save this, compile this,
and execute it, I got the same behavior as before,
I changed the name to an empty string,
and I did that now with help
of such a decorator factory function.
And in the end, it's just my decorator being wrapped
and returned inside of another function.
And it's that other function which I execute here,
to then get the actual decorator that's added to this field.
And of course, you cannot just do that for field decorators,
but also for method and clause and the other decorators.
