For that attached you find our good old starting project,

I already started the server with NPM start.

And the TypeScript watch process with TSC-W.

And the very first thing we need to configure there

is in a tsconfig file, make sure your target is set

to es6 and then, if you scroll down,

make sure that you add this

experimental decorator's line here.

And add a comma in front of this

and then you can AutoFormat to format this all correctly.

This is important otherwise you won't be able

to use decorators in your project.

So make sure you tweak your

tsconfig.json file appropriately.

And with that we can dive right in

and write our first decorator here in the app.ts file.

And I wanna start with a decorator we can add to a class.

Now decorators in general are all about classes,

but this is a decorator which we will add

to the class as a whole.

For that, let's say we have a class, Person,

a very trivial class, where we have a name.

Maybe with a value of Max, pre-initialized here.

Where we have a constructor function where I just log

Creating person object,

so that we see that this is executed.

And then of course we can create a new person here,

with a new keyword, like this.

And if we want to, we can

of course log this created person.

And this should hold no surprises,

if we save all of that,

it compiles without errors.

And if we visit our page then,

on Localhost: 3000, in the JavaScript console,

we see Creating person object which

is coming from the constructor.

And we, of course, all see the Person itself here.

Now there, in this example we got no decorators involved.

Let's change this.

At the top of the file let's add a decorator.

And a decorator, and that's really important to understand,

is in the end just a function.

A function you apply to something, for example,

to a class in a certain way.

So let's create a function here,

with the function keyword, and I will name it Logger.

Now this is a function, the only special thing here is

that I start with a capital character.

This is not a must do by the way, you don't have

to use a capital starting character,

you can use a lowercase one as well,

you just see a lot of decorators out there

in libraries which you might use

that use uppercase starting characters

and therefore, I'll do the same here.

So, the Logger function here is a function

and we can apply this as a decorator as it will turn out.

Now let's add a console log in here, Logging,

so that we can see when this function runs.

Because I will not call it directly.

Instead I wanna add it as a decorator to this class.

And we do so by adding a @ symbol here

in front of the class and then our function here.

Just like this.

Now a couple of special things here.

The @ symbol here is a special identifier

TypeScript sees or recognizes.

And then the thing directly after the @ symbol

should point at a function.

Not execute it, but point at it,

which should be your decorator.

Now here you see that Logger then

accepts too few arguments to be used as a decorator here.

So the good thing is, TypeScript understands that

I want to use it as a decorator here.

The bad thing is we don't pass enough arguments.

And indeed, decorators receive arguments.

How many arguments depends on where you use the decorator.

Here, for a decorator we add to a class we get one argument.

That's the target of this decorator

so to say, which is our constructor function.

So we can say we get a function here

as an argument in the end.

We can also name it constructor,

because in the end we will get our constructor function

of this class, or whichever class we add this decorator

to as a argument.

Let's also console.log that so that we can get some insight

into this constructor argument here.

And let's save this.

And as you see it compiles without errors.

And if we now have a look at our output,

we see the old code from before,

but we also see the Logging output,

and this constructor function being logged.

Well we actually see the whole class here,

but classes in the end are just some

tactical sugar over constructor functions.

Please also note that our decorator output, Logging,

and this class or this constructor function log here

is printed first, before we see Creating person object

and our Person object.

Because, indeed, decorators and that's really important,

decorators execute when your class is defined.

Not when it is instantiated.

You don't need to instantiate your class at all.

We could remove that code for instantiating the class,

and we would still get that decorator output.

So the decorator runs when JavaScript finds your

class definition, your constructor function definition.

Not when you use that constructor function

to instantiate an object.

That's really important to understand.

So this is our first decorator.

It's not the only way

of how we can create a decorator though.

