Now, with the knowledge about factory functions,
or factory decorators, we can do quite interesting stuff.
We could trade a new decorator factory with template,
for example.
And here, I expect to get a template,
which should be some string.
And a hookId, which should also be a string.
Then here, I return my anonymous function,
which is the actual decorator, as you've learned.
Because again, I have a decorator factory.
And in there, I want to render some template,
which should be some HTML code,
into some place in the dom, where I find this hookId.
So now we can go to index.html and add such a place
so that we can see that this works.
We can add a div here, with an id of app, maybe.
And then in app.ts, instead of logger,
I add WithTemplate.
Let's pass an empty string as a first argument for now,
and app as a second argument.
So, this ID I assigned to the div here.
And now inside of that inner function
is our actual decorator.
Inside of this decorator function,
I want to reach out to the element.
To the hook element with document.getElementById.
For the hookId we're getting here as an argument.
And if HookEl is a thing that exists, then
I want to access it's innerHTML,
and set this equal to template, let's say.
A very simple set up, of course,
but this should do the trick.
Now, I'm not interested in the constructor.
And to tell typescript that I'm not interested here,
I can add an underscore as a name,
which basically signals the typescript,
"Yeah, I know I get this argument, but I don't need it.
I have to specify it though.
So, with this underscore, I tell you that I'm aware of it,
but that I won't use it."
Because, all I want to do for now,
is I want to render this year.
So now when we add WithTemplate here,
here we could add a h1 tag,
My Person Object like this.
Also, close it.
And if we now saved that, it compiles without errors.
And indeed, here you see this was rendered on the screen.
And this hopefully shows you the power
you have with decorators.
You can build really advanced decorators like this one,
which all of a sudden does some magic behind the scenes.
And that is what I mean with metaprogramming.
We add some logic here, which we could expose
if this would be a third-party library
we share with other users.
We could expose this as part of the library,
and anyone who uses our library
can import this decorator function
and add it to a class to then magically
render some content all of a sudden.
And of course, you are, you're not even limited to do that.
If you would want to output the name which is part of the
class when it gets instantiated,
you can do that as well.
We get our constructor: Function here after all.
Now what we can do with that
is we can create a new person here,
by calling our constructor,
because that is our constructor: Function here, after all.
Let me convert this to any, so the typescript allows this
and doesn't think it's a normal function.
And then we could go to our hook element,
and query for a h1 tag, which you, of course in practice,
will not always have.
But for demo purposes,
I assume we will always have one here.
Whoops, and I should always close the h1 tag down there
now that I see it.
And then here, with an exclamation mark,
again assuming that we always find an h1 element,
we can set a textContent equal to p.name.
And If I do that and save this,
now I output the name, which is part of the object
here in the template.
So this is something you can do, and of course
you can write way more elaborate decorators
than I'm doing it here.
Consider Angular,
a very popular framework that uses typescript.
They use decorators, like this component decorator,
to allow you to pass in an object
where you specify things like the template
for discomponent.
And the selector in the dom
where this template should be rendered.
This is relatively close to what we defined here.
A template, and then a place where it should be rendered.
Now needless to say, the Angular decorators
are of course way more advanced and elaborate
than our basic decorator here.
Nonetheless, the core idea is the same.
Angular gives you the decorators here,
so that you can specify some HTML code,
which can be connected to your component class
that will be rendered to the dom
when this component gets rendered.
Now in case you don't know how Angular works,
that's not a problem.
You just have to understand here,
that it works with classes and decorators,
and then it does basically what we did here.
So that's one other thing you can do with decorators,
or as specifically here, with decorator factories.
Because that allows us to pass in that extra conflict
which we need here.
And that's also what I meant with metaprogramming.
We're creating things, we're creating decorator functions,
which you might say have some impact on the end user.
In the NP dual render or something on the screen here.
But we do that with a tool
which we expose to other developers.
Because this decorator is such a tool,
which other developers have to use
by adding it to a class in this example.
Otherwise, this would do nothing.
So we provide extra utilities to developers,
which the other developers can use to, for example,
conveniently render something on the screen
for a giving class.
That's the same thing Angular does here,
in a more advanced way,
and it is something that graders are perfect for.
