Now before we explore more useful
use cases or a scenarios for some decorators.
I wanna briefly show you all the other places
where you can add decorators.
Well obviously we can add decorators to classes
but there are more places where we can add them.
For that I'll create a new class, because we need a class
for any decorator we wanna use,
but we don't have to add all decorators
directly to the class.
Let's say we have a product class here
and in the product class, we have a title maybe,
which is a string.
And we can assign a value here with the constructor.
Of course we could always use the shortcut
and do it all in one step in a constructor
as you learned earlier.
Here I'll take the longer route.
We can have a method here, get price with tax.
For that I expect to get a tax rate which is a number
and for that to work we should also store a price here.
Price property which we also get as part of the constructor.
Again we could use the shortcut here,
but I'll do it like this.
And then in this method I will return,
This.price times one plus tax.
So we have this utility method
and we can also add a getter and a setter
if you want to.
For example, we can add a setter for the price here,
where we get the value which should be a number
and where we control that we can only set certain values.
Now to make this work, I'll re-name price up here,
to underscore price and make it private actually,
so that we can't directly reach it.
And here I will set this underscore price
and here I will use this underscore price.
And with these changes in the setter,
we can set this underscore price equal to the value we get.
But before we do so, we can check if value
is greater than zero,
so that we don't accept negative prices.
So with that, we only set the price
if it's greater than zero, otherwise we don't do anything.
Indeed we could throw an error in the other case.
Invalid price should be positive.
So that's something we can do, now we have a class
with two properties, with an accessor
and also with method here
and this method has a parameter.
Now to all these things we can add decorators
and let's start with a good old friend,
a log decorator.
Here I'll name it log to not clash with logger up there,
because this log decorator,
will not be added to a class
and therefore it will get different arguments.
It will get arguments though,
and which arguments decorator gets,
depends on where you add it.
Which is why I can't reuse logger,
because that was fine-tuned to only work with classes.
Now here I don't have a decorator factory actually,
I just have to decorate a function like this,
but still, which arguments this decorator function gets,
depends on where we use it.
For example, we can add a decorator to a property.
Here I can add log like this
and if you add a decorator to a property,
the decorator receives two arguments.
The first argument, is the target of the property
and for an instance property like this one,
which we call on a instance if you work with it.
This will be the prototype of the object that was created.
If we had a static property here,
target would refer to the constructor function state.
So here I'll say any because I don't know exactly
which structure does object will have.
The second argument we get, is the property name simply.
That could be a string here,
could of course also be a symbol.
We don't know what we use as a property identifier.
And then here I will log property decorator,
so that we can see when this runs
and I wanna a console.log target and also property name.
So that we see what's in these two values.
With that if we save so that it compiles without errors,
and if we go to our server,
we see, property decorator gets printed down there.
And this is our output we get.
We see here that's the prototype of our object
because we're not seeing title and price here.
But we do see get price with tax
and indeed methods are registered
on the prototype of an object.
So that's the prototype of our object
and we see title over here on the right,
that's the property name we're working with.
Now when exactly does this logger execute though?
Well as you can tell, since I never instantiate any product,
it executes basically when your class definition
is registered by JavaScript.
So it executes when you define this property
basically to JavaScript,
as part of your class here,
as part of this constructor function.
Which is created here in the end.
This is when this property decorator executes.
