Now besides properties,

you can also add decorators to accessors

and there I will create a new decorator function

because this will now receive free arguments.

Log2, it will also get the target which again

is either the prototype,

if we're dealing with an instance accessor,

or if we're dealing with a static one,

it will be the constructor function

so we don't know we will be of type any.

Then we'll have the name of the member we're dealing with.

So the name of the accessor in the end.

And we'll also have the property descriptor here,

which will be of type property descriptor.

That's the type built into TypeScript.

So in there, let's log accessor decorator

and then I will also console log the target here,

then maybe new lines to make them more readable

in the output, the name and also the descriptor.

Now let's add log2 to the setter here like this

and let's see what we get.

If we save that, you see down there

you got the accessor decorator which executes here.

We got our prototype again, same as a buff for the property.

Then we got the name of our accessor, price in this case.

Not underscore price,

so not the property with which it deals internally.

Instead really the name of the accessor itself.

And we got a property descriptor here where we see

that a setter function is defined for example,

a getter function is not,

because for price I only have a setter, no getter.

And we see that it's not enumerable,

but that it is configurable.

So that we can change this definition here

for example that we can delete it and so on.

This all exists and this is how we can add a decorator

to an accessor, and what we then can access

inside of this decorator.

Now besides properties and accessors,

we also got methods and can add decorators to methods.

So here I'll add Log3, and add that to my method down there

to get price with text.

And now the question of course

is which arguments does such a method decorator receive?

A method decorator also receives free arguments,

the target again which if it's an instance method,

is the prototype of the object.

If it's a static method, the constructor function

just as before, then the name of the method here,

so a string or a symbol actually.

And also the descriptor at the end, property descriptor.

These are the free arguments we get here,

and you see these are the same arguments

as in our accessor.

So indeed we could also re-use this,

but I will create a new one so that here

I can print method decorator.

Now with that if I saved this,

this executes and you see here our method decorator

executes and then here we get our prototype,

same object as before.

We get the name of the method here

and we get this descriptor of this method here.

So the very same behavior as before basically,

just a descriptor is a little bit different

since it's a method descriptor

and not an accessor descriptor.

We got a value and a writeable property here.

Previously on the accessor descriptor,

we had get and set.

But that's just a java script difference,

nothing TypeScript specific.

So, here we do have our third decorator function

which we now added to the method.

The last decorator we can add is to a parameter.

So let's do that now.

For that, I'll create one more function here,

Log4 and I want to add Log4

to this one parameter I'm getting here,

tax and you could add one

to every parameter you get of course.

You don't have to but you can add them independently

to any parameter you want to add a decorator to.

Now what does a parameter decorator get as arguments?

Well, it gets the target same as before.

The next argument we get is the name,

and not the name of the parameter,

but the name of the method in which we used this parameter.

So basically, the same as in the method decorator thus far.

But the last argument is different.

This is now not the property descriptor,

but instead this is the position of this argument,

so the number of the argument.

Here for example, this would be the first argument.

So now again, let's copy that here

and put all of that into Log4 parameter decorator.

And let's output position here as well

so that we can see what's in there.

If we now saved it, we see our parameter decorator up there,

not the very last output because execution order

is different but we see our parameter decorator

here and then here.

We got the prototype as before.

We got the name of the method

where we used this parameter,

and then the index of that argument,

and that starts at zero,

so the first argument has a number of zero here,

an index of zero,

and that's our parameter decorator.

So these are all the places where we can add

decorators and TypeScript,

and we can do various things with them.

Now I will show you a couple of examples

in this module here,

and I'll also show you libraries or frameworks

that make heavy use of decorators.

And I'll show you what they do with decorators

to give you an idea of the power that decorators can have.

