In order to do
more advanced things with decorators
you will have to note that some decorators
for example, class decorators
but also method decorators, for example,
actually are also capable of returning something.
Now, I'm not returning anything
at any decorator.
I'm not talking about
the decorator function,
which gets returned in the decorator factory.
I really mean a return value
inside of the decorator function,
and we don't have any such value anywhere.
Now in the WithTemplate function,
in this WithTemplate decorator function, I should say,
we could add such a return value.
And what you can return
and what TypeScript is able to use,
depends on which kind of decorator you're working with.
Here, we're working with
a decorator that gets added to a class,
and in such a decorator function,
you can return a new constructor function,
which will replace the old one.
So which will replace the class
to which you added to decorator you could say.
So here we can return a new function,
a new constructor function,
or simply return a new class, in the end,
because a class, the class keyword,
allows us to use this syntactic sugar
to create such a constructor function,
and the class I create here doesn't need to have a name,
but we can and we should
extend the constructor we're getting here.
So what I'm doing here now
is in my decorator function here,
I'm returning a new class,
and again keep in mind
that's just syntactic sugar
for a constructor function,
so I'm returning a constructor function, in the end,
which is based on the original constructor function,
so that I keep all the properties of my original class,
of my original constructor function,
we don't necessarily have to do that,
but I don't want to lose my properties here,
so I will do it.
And then in here we can add new functionality.
For example, and I will have to change some names here,
I can add a new constructor function in there,
and to avoid confusion,
I'll rename the constructor I'm getting here.
So the class in which I added this decorator,
I'll name this here, originalConstructor
and copy that all over here.
And now, instead of this constructor function here,
I have to call super
to call this original constructor function
from inside of it,
because if you add a constructor function
in a class that extends another class,
which is, in the end, what we're doing here,
then you have to call super.
And now in here you can write any logic you want.
And, for example, here, we could move this
template rendering logic here,
out of our decorator function
into this new constructor function
we're returning here.
So again, really keep in mind
that we're creating a class here
which in the end just
creates a constructor function
with this logic in it.
So now what I'm trying to do is,
I try to replace the class.
The constructor function to which we added our decorator
with a new class, with a new constructor function,
where I still execute the old logic,
but where I also add my own new logic,
and therefore, now the template
should actually only be rendered to the DOM
if I really instantiate my object here.
And not all the time,
when this decorator function is executed,
which as you learned,
happens as soon as we define the class.
Now a little tweak here,
I don't call my original constructor in here anymore,
instead we can just access this.name
to get the name property value
of the instance we are creating.
Now we get a little complaint down there
regarding the types not being correct.
To fix that though, we can turn our decorator function
into a generic function where we get a type,
and set this as the type of original constructor,
and now make clear
that this will actually be
basically a constructor function,
and we can make that clear
by assigning a special type, an object type,
where we set a new property,
this is a reserve name of course,
but it tells TypeScript
that in the end this will be an object
that can be newed.
So that will be a constructor function,
a function we can call with the new keyword
to generate a new object.
And this new function, this new method,
which the object T is based on will have,
will get any amount of arguments,
so I'm using rest parameters here
to accept as many arguments as you want,
so that they're really flexible regarding the arguments
that can be passed to the constructor
of the class we're trying to change.
Add the new function
will then in the end return an object here.
Now I should also just copy that defination
of the rest parameter to my constructor here,
so that this constructor is also capable
of accepting all the arguments we might be getting,
so that we can, basically instantiate Person
with any arguments you want to pass in here.
With any arguments we might also need here,
in the original constructor function.
And with that the only problem we'll face
is that we don't know that such a name property exists,
and correctly so, we don't know
to which class we'll add this WithTemplate decorator,
so we don't know if there will be a name property
on the class we add it to.
But, we can fix this
by simply telling TypeScript
that the object T is based on,
so our original constructor function,
will not just produce any object,
but actually will produce an object
with a name property which will be of type string
and that is correct.
Our WithTemplate decorator is added to a class,
which will have a name property.
If I would comment this out,
we would get an error,
because now we would try to add this decorator
to a class which does not fulfill this criterium
but here, this does fulfill it.
Now, I get an error here when I try to compile this,
because I'm not using args here,
we can change this to an _
to tell typescript that we know we don't use it
and that we wanna ignore this.
This is a valid parameter name,
it's just a special name which typescript takes as a
I get it, I need to accept it,
but I won't use it parameter.
And with that, it all compiles and if we reload,
you see, we still see Max on the page here.
The interesting thing just is,
if we now remove that code
where we instantiate Person
if I comment this out
so that I just find a Person class,
but I never instantiate it anywhere,
you see as it reloads we don't see Max on the screen.
All the decorators still execute,
but we don't render anything to the screen anymore.
And the reason for that,
is that we now enhanced our decorator here even more,
by taking advantage of it's feature
where we can return a new value
or in this case a new constructor function.
In the case of the class decorator.
This is a new constructor function, or a new class,
which, as I explained, is just syntactic sugar
for the constructor function,
and this constructor function, therefore,
replaces our original class,
our original constructor function.
Now, since I called super in here,
we save the original function.
We save the original class,
everything we initialize here basically still happens,
because I do that in my replacing constructor as well,
and I extend the original class.
So we save everything that was in the original class.
You don't have to do that,
but I am doing it here,
because I don't want to lose that original data.
But, behind the scenes,
I replace the class with my new custom class here,
and that allows us to add extra logic,
that should run when the class is instantiated.
And now all of a sudden we are able to add logic
that does not run when the class is defined,
but when the class is instantiated.
And this therefore should be a great first example
of the full power you can unleash with decorators
if you really understand what you can do with them.
And you can not just define them as functions,
and you can not just define them with factor functions.
In some decorators, like the class decorator,
you can also return something
to replace the thing you added the decorator to
in our case the class,
with a new class that can implement the old class
but also add its new custom logic.
And with that, if we comment this back in,
we again render Max to the screen
with our own class
that replaces, or that extends and replaces the old class.
