Lecture resource: 
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/defineProperty
- 
We saw how we can build quite amazing things
with decorators, decorator factories and then also
by utilizing the return values of decorators
which in the examples,
the class decorator allows us to
basically replace the class we added the decorator to
with a class that is totally different,
that builds up on the existing class, like in our case
and that therefore might add some functionalities.
Now you can return values in other decorators too
but not in all of them.
Or not in all them the return value is respected.
Now, decorators where you can return something
are the decorators you can add to methods
and the decorators you add to accessors.
So here on the setter log 2 and log 3 on the method
these two decorators, log 2 and log 3 these also could
return something and TypeScript would use it.
The decorators on properties and on parameters
of course, also can return something
but TypeScript will ignore it.
So return values are not supported there
or are not used to be precise.
Now what can you return on log 3?
So on method decorators and on log 2,
so on accessor decorators though.
You can return a brand new property descriptor.
Log 2 and log 3, which are the two decorators
I'm talking about, right?
Log 2 and log 3, both get the descriptor off the property,
off the method, you could say, they are attached to.
Because an accessor is kind of like a method,
you have a function that gets executed there.
Now the property descriptor is a JavaScript thing,
as you know, if we have a look at this page again
and we reload it we see that, for example
for our accessor decorator,
the property descriptor is this object here which has
the configurable and enumerable
and get and set properties.
And for the method decorator our descriptor is
this object here which also has
configurable, enumerable, value and writable.
And this is vanilla JavaScript.
You have property descriptors in vanilla JavaScript as well.
They allow you to define a property in more detail.
You can of course assign a value to a property
and since we're talking about a method,
the value is a function in this case
but you can also control whether it's writable
so if it can be changed after it has been created,
after the object has been created.
Whether it's configurable,
so if you can change it's
configuration and if you can delete this property.
And if it's enumerable,
which means if it shows up when you loop
through your object for example.
And therefore a method for example
by default this is set to false so that
if you use a for in loop on an object
this method is not printed as a property.
For an accessor we also got
configurable and enumerable,
but we get and set and there you could of course,
also, for example, return a new descriptor which
assigns a brand new set method or which suddenly
also adds a get functionality.
So here in log 2 and log 3 you can return a new
descriptor object in the end and make it clear
to TypeScript that you will do so by returning
or by setting the return type to property descriptor
and there you can therefore also set the set keyword,
the get keyword, the configurable or the
enumerable property and change how this accessor
or method is configured.
Now I don't wanna do that here for the accessor,
there's nothing interesting I could do with it
therefore I will not return a property descriptor,
but I will actually show you an example with the method
decorator where we will return something and we can build
interesting with the help of decorators.
