So we can return something

on Method Decorators,

and that something should be a descriptor,

which allows us to change the method

or change the configuration of the method.

And this is something I wanna do here.

Before that, I will first of all go to the index HTML file

and there, let's add a button.

Click Me, a very simple button,

in my app.ts file, I now want to make sure

that when we click this button

we execute a method on an object.

And for that, I will simply add a new class here,

first of all, printer.

And in there I wanna have a property message

which is just this works, so a simple string stored in there

and then I want to have a show message method in there

where I simply console log this message.

So, of course, this is kind of a simple dummy class

but none the less, this allows me to show you

what I want to show you.

Let's select the button to door now,

with document query selector button

and let's add an event listener to it.

Now, first of all, I'll add my exclamation mark here

to make it clear to TypeScript that this exists,

that this will not be null,

and then I will add an event listener,

a click event listener, and then I want to trigger

this show message method here.

For that, I will create a new printer here, like this,

and then here point at p.showMessage,

that's my idea here.

Now, if we save that,

and we go back to our page and I click on this button,

we get undefined here, though,

we don't get our message being shown.

And the reason for that is that with an event listener,

if we point at a function that should be executed

the this keyword inside of that function

will not have the same context or reference

as it has if we call just p.ShowMessage,

in this case, this would refer to the printer.

No, in the scenario here where we use an event listener,

this will refer to the target of the event,

because addEventListener in the end binds this

in the function which is to be executed

to the target of the event.

And of course, I don't want this.

Now, a common workaround here

would be to use the bind method

and bind showMessage to p, or bind this in showMessage to p

so that when this executes, this is not referring

to what addEventListener wants it to refer to

but instead this inside of showMessage

will refer to this p, to this object here again.

And if we're now, if we reload here

and I clear this again, now we see this works!

Now, that is all default JavaScript.

Now, we'll build a decorator,

which we can add to this method,

which will automatically bind this to the surrounding class,

so to the object this method belongs to,

every time it's called, no matter where we call it.

So for that, above the printer I'll add a new function

and I will name it autobind because that is, in the end,

what we do and that will be my decorator autobind.

Can also of course use a capital starting character

to stay in line with our other namings

but again, you can use either of the two

when you define a decorator function.

Now this here will be my decorator already

and in there we get a couple of arguments.

We get the target, as you'll learn, and that is any.

It is either the prototype of the object

we're working with or it's the constructor function

if we would be adding this to a static method

but here it will be the prototype

because we will add it to a instance method.

Then we have the method name or the property name

but since we add it to a method

we can call this method name, makes more sense.

If this is a string or a symbol

or it could also be a number, of course,

but here we know we will typically work with strings

so we can also just go with string here,

depending on where you plan on adding this decorator

and how generic it should be

and last but not least, we get the descriptor here

which will be of type PropertyDescriptor as alert.

So now we've got these three arguments

which we all used on Log3

which was our method decorator before.

Now, in autobind, and I now want to make sure

that we always set the this keyword

to this object this method belongs to again.

Now how can we achieve this?

First of all, I have to get access

to the method which should be called.

And this will be possible with the help of our descriptor,

because if you reload the app

and you have a look at such a method descriptor down there

you see we get the value property

in the descriptor and that points at the function.

Because the value of this property is a function,

in this case, a method is just a property

with a function as a value.

So the value key holds the original function,

therefore, here, we can extract the original method,

if we wanna call it like this

by accessing descriptor.value.

This will give us access to the, well, original method.

Next, I will set up a new adjusted descriptor,

this will, in the end, be what we return later.

Now this will be an object

and it will be of type property descriptor.

Now in this object here we can add all the things

we can add to a property descriptor.

And for example, can set this to configurable, true,

set enumerable to false, so that this does not show up

in foreign loops,

and now add a getter here, and that's new.

I add a getter here, which is a method,

or a property that holds a function, which is the same,

so that we can execute some extra logic

when users try to access this property.

So that we don't just directly execute the value

of this property, so the function,

but that we can step in and do some extra work

before we execute the function.

That's the idea here.

So I don't add a value property to this descriptor here,

I just have a getter and again,

the getter basically is like having a value property

with extra logic that runs before the value is returned.

Now, in here I want to have my bound function

where I can use the original method we extracted up here

and we call bind and bind this.

And now the bequest, of course,

is what does this refer to in here?

Keep in mind it's inside of this getter method

so this will refer to whatever is responsible

for triggering this getter method.

And that's the trick now,

the getter method will be triggered

by the concrete object to which it belongs,

so this inside of the getter method

will always refer to the object

on which we defined the getter.

This will not be overwritten by addEventListener

because the getter is like an extra layer

between our function that's being executed

and the object to which it belongs

and the Event Listener.

So therefore, this in here will refer

to the object on which we originally defined the method.

So we can safely bind this for the original method

and ensure that now this inside of the original method

will also refer to the exact same object.

Now I will return the bound function here

and thereafter, outside of this adjusted descriptor,

return the adjusted descriptor.

So that's our decorator function,

returning a new descriptor object,

and therefore this descriptor object

will override the old descriptor,

that is what TypeScript will do with it.

TypeScript will then replace the old methods descriptor,

so the old methods configuration

with this new configuration here,

which added this extra getter layer.

Now, I'm not interested in target and method name here,

of course, so to avoid errors I will name this underscore

and this here underscore two.

Again, just to tell TypeScript that I'm not interested

in these values but I need to accept them.

And now let's add autobind to showMessage here.

So here, I will add at Autobind,

and make sure that you removed bind down there

in the event listener, and save this.

And now let's have a look at that,

let's click Click Me, and you should see This Works!

If I reload, this works.

Because this is now bound correctly.

And just to verify that it's really our decorator

that makes a difference here,

if I would remove the binding here

in my getter and the decorator

and I save that, you see that if it is now reloads

and we click Click me, we see undefined again.

So it's really this extra getter layer

which does its work here

which ensures that this is always bound correctly

no matter how you call showMessage.

If we called it like this directly on the object

it will work, if we call it here like this

with an event listener, it also works.

So you see this works here,

which in the end is coming from this showMessage call

and then you also see it works if I click on the button.

So this is one neat example

of how you can utilize decorators

to build a quite amazing functionality

and save you the hassle of manually calling bind everywhere.

Instead, you just bind it like this.

