So now that we saw another nice example

for how we can work with decorators,

there's one last example which I wanna dive into.

And that is decorators for validation.

For that, at the bottom of the file,

I will add yet another new class here.

That could be a course.

Now a course should have a title, which is a string.

And maybe a price, which is a number.

Then here we have a constructor where

we get both values here

and I'm deliberately not using the shortcut here,

so that I can easily add property decorators.

Then, I set this title equal to t,

and this price equal to p.

Now, of course now when we want to instantiate this course,

we have to pass in a valid title and a valid price.

But one common scenario you might encounter

in some applications is that you fetch data,

let's say from a web resource and you get data where

you guess you have a couple of courses let's say,

but you don't know for sure.

Or, another possible scenario, you let users enter the data

and you simply want to assign that data

and trade a new course with the user-entered data

and you assume it's right, but you are not guaranteed

that it's right and therefore you want

to validate the input.

That's the scenario I wanna fake here.

Lets say in our index html file, we get a simple form here

and I'll not style it, so it will now be that beautiful,

but we have a simple form here with the input of type text

and a placeholder of title, woops, course, title

and an id of let's say title and below that

we have a number input where the type is all the text,

but it's the course price and the id is price.

And then we have our button where we submit this.

So the button is of type submit.

So a very simple form and as I said it's not that beautiful

if we have a look at it here,

but it has everything we need.

Now, let's hook up a listener to the form here.

So here I got my courseForm which I can get with document,

querySelector, form and I add the exclamation mark because

I know I will get one so this will not be null,

and then on the form we can addEventListener,

the submit event listener and then we get the event object

passed into the function which I assigned automatically.

There I wanna call event preventDefault, so that we don't

submit the form and sent no http request.

And then we want to extract the data for title

and for the price.

So, the title can be extracted by reaching out to document,

querySelector, or actually since we assigned an id,

getElementById, title and we know that

this will be an HTMLInputElement so we can use typecasting

to let typescript know about this,

and the price is document, getElementById, price

and we can also convert this to an InputElement.

And I actually there for these are the elements

so we'll rename the constants to titleEL and priceEl

and to get the concrete title we can now go to titleEl,

access to value property and to get the price,

we can do the same for the priceElement

and get the value there too,

and I want to have to add as a number,

so I add the plus in front of it to convert it to a number.

Now, that's that, but now I want to create new course

with that information.

So, here we have the created course where

I can call new course and I pass in title and price.

Now typescript accepts this, because title will be a string

and since I convert this input to a number,

price will be a number.

So, if I then console log, the created course thereafter,

we can check if this works.

Let's save that, reload, maybe clear the console so

that we can clearly see the output,

and then add a new course here.

Javascript the complete guide cost $199

and this seems to work.

Now, unfortunately this only works though if

I don't enter anything.

If I now click save, we see this course is created.

Now, this technically is a valid course

but of course, it's not really valid for our application.

We probably wanna have a title which is not empty

and a price which is greater than zero.

So we wanna add validation.

Of course we can simply add a if check here

and check if title, trim, length is greater than zero,

which means it is not empty

and where we also validate the price.

But that means that whenever we create a new course,

we have to add the validation logic here before we add it.

Wouldn't it be nice if the validation logic

would be included in the course class,

with the help of decorators, maybe?

And that's exactly what I wanna do here.

Now I will only provide a basic idea

of how we could implement this,

in the next module I will show you an example package

which does this in a way more elaborate way

and which we then will all use there

to play around with it a bit.

Now however here I want to implement

this with my own decorators

and I will add a decorator required here

and we'll add another decorator function

which I'll name PositiveNumber.

So I got two decorators here.

And now my idea is that we can add them here

to our properties, for example Required in front of title,

and positiveNumber in front of the price and typescript kind

of registers this somewhere and then

we got a third function, validate to which we can pass

a object so any object and typescript then has a look

at the project, finds any validation we registered

on this class for this object earlier

and applies our validation logic.

That's the idea I have here.

So, this could be part of a third-party library

we're exposing to you and then you just import required

positive number and validate to first set up the validators

and then at some point call validate.

So for example here when we created the course,

we can call validate and pass in the createdCourse

and if this is not true, so let's say

this should return true or false,

if this is not true, then we throw an error

or show an alert, invalid input please try again

and only otherwise we continue.

So that's my idea.

That we can call validate, this returns true or false.

True if it's valid, false if it's not valid

and we can therefore use the result.

So therefore we get a couple of things to do.

We need to make sure that when we add a decorator here,

this is somehow stored somewhere.

Again, keep in mind this could be part

of our own third-party library,

so in there we could have some kind of storage

that's stores that for this class and this title property

for example, we want it to be required.

And in validate, we can then check if in the storage

for the object we got, for the class the object is based on

we do have a validator registered for the title,

for the price and so on.

And we then run our validation logic.

That's my idea here.

