

To implement this I will first of all

create a interface ValidatorConfig,

where I want to configure that storage I want to work with.

My idea there is to have a couple of properties,

and hence I use this index type notation here.

Which are basically strings,

where the value is yet another object.

Because this here would be basically the class name

for which we want to register some validated properties.

And then in the object which we store there,

we have the concrete properties of the class

that have validators attached to them.

So here we have the validatable property,

if you wanna call it like this,

which also will be a string key.

And then the value for that should be an array of strings

where basically we have something like

required, positive, and so on.

So something like that could be added here

as a list of validators.

Now we can create our registeredValidators config here,

which should be of type ValidatorConfig

which initially is an empty object.

Because initially when the app starts

when our third party library gets loaded,

no validators have been registered yet.

Well, and then here in our directors

we want to add something to that registry.

Now keep in mind that a property decorator function

gets two arguments: the target, which is the prototype

of the object the property sits on,

or the constructor function if it were a static property,

and the property name.

These are the two arguments we get here,

we don't get the descriptor for properties.

Now we can go to our registered validators

and there I wanna add a new entry for target.constructor.

The prototype of the instance we're working with

will have a constructor key which points at

the constructor function that was used to create our object.

And that, therefore, will basically be

something like course here,

so the name of that constructor function in the end

can be retrieved from that constructor.

Because constructor is a function

we can use the name property,

which exists on any function in JavaScript

to get the function name, and this then will be

the course name here for example.

So now we register the class name as a key

in registered validators.

And the value for that then should be another object.

So I set this equal to another object here.

And in that object I also have

a dynamically assigned property

where I use my propName, so the property for which

I want to add a validator as a key.

Now the value here is an array of strings,

and here I will add required as a string.

Now of course this is a very naive validator.

If we had other validators registered

for this property already, I would now overwrite it here.

So it would be better to first retrieve

any existing validators and then copy them into this array

and only add required to that existing array.

Again, to save some time here,

and to just show the general idea,

I will have this more naive approach here.

With that we got the required annotation though,

let's now work on the positive number annotation.

And of course, that's basically the same.

I copy that code but I set this here to positive

or whatever identifier you want to use

and of course we have to make sure

we accept the right arguments.

So with that along with this what we added thus far,

we register these properties and their validators

in our global config when this class is defined.

Now we just need to work on the validate function.

The validate function should go through

all registered validators, and then basically run

different logic based on which validators it finds.

So here first of all I want to retrieve the configuration

for the concrete object we're dealing with.

For that we need to find out which constructor function

the object is based on and then get the validation config

or the property validator mappings here

which we set up for that object.

So here I'll name this object validators,

or objValidatorConfig maybe.

And we reach out to the registered validators here

and access a property which should be obj.constructor.name,

same logic as before, we access the constructor property

which exists on the prototype of the object

and therefore we can access it directly on the object

thanks to how JavaScript works

and thanks to the prototype chain

we will then reach out to the prototype

if we can't find the constructor property

on the object itself, and that will work.

And therefore now we got the constructor name

and we find out that, for example, this Course here

is based on this Course class.

So we look up any validator configuration

we have for the Course class.

So now we're looking at this object, basically.

This is now in objValidatorConfig.

Now of course we might not find this

if we're trying to validate our object

for which nothing was registered.

So if we don't have any validator config,

if we don't find anything there, I want to return true

because then this certainly is valid, right?

There is nothing to validate,

so the object certainly is valid.

Otherwise, if we do find it I want it to loop

through this inner object here with a for in loop.

So with that I loop through my properties

for which I registered validators,

with const prop in objValidatorConfig.

This gives me access to all the property names

for which we then might have validators.

So now of course I need to go through

all the validators we might have for a property.

This always should be an array

even if we only have one validator added.

So we can use a for of loop here now

and get the concrete validator, which we have,

for the objValidatorConfig for this given property.

So now we're getting things like positive or required,

which are stored in the validator constant then.

And then we could have a switch statement here,

or of course call external functions

based on which validator we find.

But here I'll go with a built-in switch statement,

switch on validator and then basically have different cases.

For example, the required case here.

Whoops, like this.

Here, I want to return true if our property,

which we're looking at...

So this property on this object has a non-empty value.

So I will return true if obj prop is truthy.

And to convert this to a real true or false value

we can use the double bang operator.

Now I hear types of complaints that it doesn't know

whether object has this property,

so here we should actually change this to any

to get this extra flexibility here.

Of course you could also work on the types here.

And for example, also turn your identifiers here

into clearly defined types where Enums you work with

and maybe also improve the typing here.

Though, to be honest, since I want this to work

with any object, it is hard to improve this in a way

that TypeScript will like it.

We could work with generic types

but then again we would need kind of restrict ourselves

to which objects the generic types

should extend and accept therefore.

So any might be our best option here to be really flexible

and accept a lot of different objects

in this validate function.

Now back to the switch segment,

the required case is one possibly case,

we also got the positive case which we wanna handle.

And there I want to return true

if the property we're looking at is greater than zero.

So if object prop is greater than zero,

then this returns true, otherwise this will return false.

Now if we don't make it into this for block

or if we somehow have a loop

that doesn't loop through anything

because we haven't registered any validators,

we passed an empty array here or something,

so if you make it past this for loop,

I will return true as a default as well.

And now we return something in all circumstances

and we can use validate.

With that let's see whether it works, if we now save this,

and we reload our app here and I try to submit this

we get an error, invalid input please try again.

If I enter some text here:

JavaScript The Complete Guide,

I still get this because my number is wrong.

If I enter minus one here we also get this

because that's not positive.

If I enter a positive number however, it works.

If I have a positive number but the first field is empty,

then this also works,

so that's something we'll have to work on.

So let's find out what the problem is.

And to find out I actually will add

a little console log here and log the property

we're looking at.

We could of course also use break points

and developer tools.

Now if I click save here, you see the first thing

which gets validated here is the price

and thereafter we stop.

So the price is the first property that gets validated.

And that's the interesting thing here,

the price is actually only property that matters here

because we return in validate.

That means the first time we find any validator

that returns true or false, we immediately return

and we don't care about the other validators.

Now in the false case this is okay

because if one element is false,

if one property is false, is invalid,

then we're fine not even looking at the others.

But for the true case it's a problem.

If we return true the first time

one property meets our expectations, we have a problem.

So we should enhance this by having

a isValid property here, which initially is true.

Is valid variable, I mean.

And then here we set isValid equal to isValid and this here,

and the same down here, set this equal to this.

So that we don't return immediately,

instead we just update isValid and we break thereafter

to not fall through.

The result of that is that in the end

after all these loops isValid either still is true,

but as soon as one of these checks here is false,

thanks to how JavaScript works,

the overall isValid value will be false

because true combined with false will return false.

And then down there we should return isValid.

So now we ensure that all properties are checked

and not just the first one JavaScript has a look at.

This however will not be our only problem,

we also have a problem here when we have a look at

how we register our validator logic.

I always overwrite the registered validators

for a given class name with a new object.

Instead we should add any existing validators here

so that we don't do that.

For example, we have the spread operator like that

to take any existing key value pairs for that class name

on the registered validators and add that first

before we add our one, also down there of course.

And now with that, if we save this,

and we go back to our application here.

If I have both empty, we fail.

If we enter a valid price but we have

a invalid title, we fail.

If both is valid, we succeed.

If we have a valid title but not price, we fail.

Also with a negative price.

And therefore this now looks good to me

and this is now our first naive implementation

of how such a validator could work

with the help of TypeScript decorators.

And keep in mind that all of that here,

all the decorators, the validate function and the registry,

would be hidden away from you.

That could be part of a third party library

which you're working on,

of course in a more elaborate way than probably

which you share with your end users.

And you, as a end user, would just import these things,

add these decorators, and call validate,

and you would have a very convenient way

of adding validation to your classes then.

