Okay, so we did now learn about
explicit type assignments, type inference,
and that TypeScript has built-in types,
like string, number, or boolean,
and other types which we'll see later.
Now, another interesting question
at this point of time, though,
is where you can set types.
I mean, we can see that we can do it for variables,
but where else can we take advantage of TypeScript?
Well, another place are functions,
as you also already briefly saw in the first course section.
If you have a function add that expects to get to numbers,
you can set the types of parameters
you expect to get for this function
right after the parameter names, again, by using colon,
and then followed by the type name.
And that allows you to take advantage of TypeScript
when defining functions.
Now, you can also take advantage
of type inference here if you need to.
You could assign an initial value to be like this,
and that's a standard JavaScript feature, by the way,
initial values for function parameters,
that's not TypeScript-specific.
But what is TypeScript-specific
is that it will now infer that b should be of type number
due to this initial value.
And a is of type number due to our explicit type assignment.
And since that's the case,
we can call this function with one parameter value.
So with one argument since the second one is optional
due to the initial value.
But it must be a number that we pass to add.
A string will not work, as you see,
because, well, we have that type assignment.
And of course, we can also call it with two arguments
and override that initial value here.
But in that case as well,
both values, of course, must be numbers,
strings are not allowed.
So functions and their parameters specifically
are another very commonplace where TypeScript features
are being used or very explicit type assignments
can be useful, unless you have an initial value.
Now, there also are some other places
where type assignments and type inference can be used,
for example, when working with classes or objects,
but these are examples we'll see step by step
throughout this course.
Variables and functions are amongst the most common places
for TypeScript usage, though.
