We had a look at a lot of decorators,
how you work with them,
how you can configure them,
how you can do stuff with them,
what you can do with them.
This hopefully shows you the complexity but also the power
of decorators and how you can think about them,
how you can use them.
You're not only able to create your own decorators,
there also is a rich ecosystem out there
of packages and frameworks that rely on decorators.
For example, class validator.
If you search for "ts class validator,"
you find a package which basically has
a more elaborate implementation of
our own custom validation logic we worked on.
This package can be added to any project
you are working on, and then you can
simply import a bunch of decorators
or decorator factories, as you can see,
since we execute them here.
Add them to your properties,
with or without some extra configuration,
depending on the validator it is,
and behind the scenes this will
manage such a registry, you could say,
such as configuration object in the end,
store your validator setup for the different properties
in your different classes.
And then, give you a validate method,
which you also import from the package,
which you can execute and pass your object to,
to apply all the validation logic
you set up in the class.
So it's basically doing what we just did,
just with more validators, and with all the
heavy lifting done for you.
But of course it helps to understand
how this generally works,
since we built it on our own here,
in a more naive version.
Now besides this package, of course,
we also have Angular, for example.
Angular is a framework,
which I mentioned earlier already,
which heavily relies on decorators,
like this component decorator,
which allows you to assign
some dynamic HTML code,
which taps into properties of your classes as well,
with a special syntax added by Angular,
to then render some dynamic content
onto the screen.
So here Angular does more than
just offer these decorators,
but the decorators are a core part of Angular.
And last, but not least,
I also want to show you NestJS.
NestJS is a server side JavaScript framework
for Node.js, which also heavily utilizes
typescript, and this also embraces decorators.
There you use decorators to define controllers,
and routes, the methods which users have to use
on their HTTP requests, to trigger certain functions,
and also a lot of other decorators you can use
to extract data from incoming requests,
and so on.
So here this framework also again,
offers all these decorators for you,
so that you can just add them to your properties,
to your methods, to your classes,
and add extra functionality,
which the framework then in turn
also takes into account when it executes your code.
So here again, decorators are used for
metaprogramming to add extra configuration,
extra logic, which then is taken into account by,
in this case, the code off the framework,
which executes your code or
which works together with your code.
And that's it for decorators.
This hopefully gives you a good overview
of what you can do with decorators,
why they can be very helpful,
and how they generally work.
cảnh báo thông tin
Lên lịch thời gian học