To get started,
here I'll run npm start to bring up that development server.
Which serves the HTML file and the menu tab,
tsc-w to start types of compilation in watch mode
so that our app JavaScript file is continuosly rebuilt
and we can view it in the running application.
Right now, of course our application doesn't look too fancy.
It's an empty page.
So to get started,
there are many ways of doing that.
Now, I wanna start with making this form visible.
And now, there are many ways,
I will actually write this application in
an object oriented approach.
Which is 100% optional but since
we learned about classes and so on,
I wanna actually show how this works
and therefore I will use this approach.
So in the app key,
I'll add a new class and I'll name it Project Input
though the class name of course is entirely up to you.
Now in this class,
our goal has to be, to get access to this template
and to the form in it and to get access to this div here,
and then render our template in that div in the end.
So the content of the template, the form in that div.
That has to be our goal.
Now to achieve this,
here in Project Input,
I'll add a constructor where I in the end
wanna get access to my template and
to the place where it should be rendered.
And for this here, I'll add two properties on the fly
with this, the template element property
and then also the host element property.
The names are 100% up to you.
In the end my idea's that host element,
holds a reference to the element
where I wanna render my template content in the end
and well, template element gives me access to
the template that holds this content.
Now to get access to that template,
let's have a look at index html and see how we can identify
the template which holds the form.
Well it has this project-input ID,
so that looks like a good strategy.
So here we can use document
getElementById project-input.
This gives us access to this template element.
Now, a couple of important things.
Here we get an error that template element is a property
which does not exist on project-input.
Now to get rid of this, we actually should add it
as a new field here directly in the class.
Then we can safely assign to it.
Now here, I also wanna be clear about the type
which would be stored in there.
And that will be a HTML template element.
This type is globally available
because in the tsconfig js file, I added the DOM as a lib
and that adds all these DOM types,
all these HTML element types as typescript types
to the entire project.
Now this infuses a new error here however,
you see that in the end this could be null
when we get the element by ID,
of course we know that it won't fail but typescript
has no chance of knowing this
because it's not going to analyze our html file.
So maybe no element with this ID exists
and therefore this would yield null.
Now here, we say we don't store null in there,
we just store HTML template element.
So, to eliminate this danger,
we have to tell typescript, that this will never be null.
And you know how you can do this?
You can add an exclamation mark here.
An alternative of course,
just to also show this,
if you would not be sure,
is to store it as let's say in a constant
and then check if template element is truthy,
so if it's not null
and then store it inside of that if check here.
Now, we're still getting an error
but that will be a different error,
which I'll come back to later.
For now this would do the trick
if we're not sure.
Now here, however, I am sure.
And by the way,
if you're not sure,
you should provide a fallback in the else case of course.
But here I am sure that we'll get such element
and therefore we can simply add
an exclamation mark thereafter to tell typescript,
"All good.
We will get access to an element with that ID."
Now as I mentioned,
we still have another error though.
Property content is missing in type HTML element.
The problem here is that we're telling typescript
that we're going to store a template element which is
of type html template element.
And indeed that will be the case.
Now of course, getElementById doesn't know
which element it will return eventually.
It just knows it would be some html element
but not which specialized version of it.
If its a div, a paragraph, a button
or like in this case a template element.
getElementById has no chance of knowing that.
So in order to tell typescript about the type
which we of course also know with certainty.
We can use type casting.
You learned about this as well.
There are two syntaxes you can use.
The angle brackets at the beginning
and then the type you wanna cast this to
with that you're telling typeScript,
"Hey!
The thing, the expression coming after this here,
this will be of that type."
or alternatively, you add as HTML template element
which is the approach I would use.
And with that, you guarantee to typescript
that what you fetch here will not be null
and will be of this type.
A lot of talking about selecting this
but it is a common task
and it is important to get this right.
Now lets continue with the host element.
Here, we should also add host element as a field
and we know that the host element,
when we actually wanna render our project-input
will in the end be this div here.
That's where I wanna render my form.
So, here we can say HTML div element.
That's the type of element we're going to add this to.
We could also be a bit less specific
and just say HTML element,
because here I really don't care whether its a div or not.
But since we know it with certainty,
why not add it?
Now, I wanna get access to that div of course
where this should be added
and if we have a look at the index.html file,
we see we can identify this div by the ID again.
The app ID in this case.
So now, back in app ts, we can use document getElementById
one more time and reach out to the element with the id app.
Now, we have the same problems as before,
this can be null, so we have to add the exclamation mark
because again, we know with certainty that it won't,
and getElementById does not know that
this will be a HTML div element so,
we should cast this here as well.
And with that we can now find how we get access
to all the elements we need to.
Well, that was a lot of talking about that.
With that unfortunately we haven't achieved much.
We have access to these elements
but we are not rendering anything there.
So let's continue with that.
For that, we need to import the content
off this template element,
so basically import what's inside the template tags
and render this to the DOM.
We can do this right here in the constructor
because my idea and of course,
that's just my idea,
you could set this up differently.
But my idea is that when we create
a new instance of this class,
I immediately wanna render a form
that belongs to this instance.
So we'll do it right in the constructor.
There we can get our imported node
or imported HTML content or however you wanna name it,
which we can get with document importNode
and that is a method provided on the global document object
and to importNode you pass a pointer
at your template element.
So this template element in the end,
or to be precise not the element but dot content there.
Content is a property that exists on HTML template elements
and it simply gives a reference
to the content of a template.
So to the HTML code between the template text.
ImportNode also takes a second argument
which defines whether it should import this
with a deep clone or not.
So all levels of nesting inside of the template
and I definitely wanna do that so I will provide true here.
Now, we have the importedNode and as you'll see,
this is of type document fragment
which typescript assumed or inferred automatically.
Now we can use that importedNode,
and of course I wannna use it to render some content.
For that I will add a new method,
a private method which I'll name attach.
You don't need to do that,
I just wanna split my selection and rendering logic.
Inside of attach,
I will reach out to the host element,
so the place where I do want to render my content
and call insertAdjacentElement which is
a default method provided by
the browser in the end in JavaScript.
To insert the HTML element an insert adjacent element,
first of all takes a description of where to insert it,
so there you can insert it after the beginning of
the element you're targeting,
so right after the opening tag of host element,
before the beginning or before the opening tag,
before the end tag or after the end tag.
And here I'll go for after begin to insert it right
at the beginning of the opening tag.
And then the thing I wanna insert is my importedNode
however, first of all that's a constant only available
in the constructor and second,
that's a document fragment.
We couldn't insert it like this.
Instead we need to get access to
the concrete HTML element in there,
which we can store in another property element.
Which we also have to add as a field up there
which can be of type HTML element or in our case actually,
we know it will be inside of the template here,
so it will be a form.
That's the first element in the template.
So here we can say it will be
a HTML form element, and then here,
this element is equal importNode firstElementChild,
now we just have to tell typescript again,
that this will be a HTML form element.
Now this element is now the concrete property
that points at the node we wanna insert.
So down there, in insertAdjacentElement,
we insert this element here.
Now we just need to make sure
that here in the constructor,
at the end of it that we call attach,
so this private attach method,
so that this code also executes.
And now with all the formatting,
this is how my code looks like.
So that now is the project input class,
and theoretically, when we instantiate it,
it should render the form.
Now lets give it a try.
Below the class, let's simply create a new constant,
prjInput for example, name is up to you.
And call new project Input like this.
And if we now save that,
it should recompile and reload
and if you go back to the browser,
indeed you should see that form here.
So that's pretty neat,
because with that, we made out first very important step.
We have our form rendered
and even though a lot is missing,
that's better than nothing.
This form, is coming from the index html file
and it's rendered with the help of our object oriented
typescript code up there.
