So we rendered our first form

but what you'll notice is that the styling is a bit off,

I mean the form looks okay,

but some distance between the edges of our screen

and the form would be nice.

If you dive into the app.css file

you will actually detect that there we have

a user input ID selector.

Were we do add some margin paddings,

that doesn't sound too bad,

so actually what we can do is an app.ts

when we create our element here or when we get access to it.

We can reach out to the element and add an ID here

which would be user-input.

This will make sure that the rendered element has this ID

in hence if this reloads this looks much nicer.

If we inspect this in the browser depth we see

the ID here and that's the reason for this better styling.

With that we're already doing the next step,

we're interacting with the element.

Now this is not the only interaction I wanna do.

Since we have a form here

I wanna get access to the different form inputs we have here

so that we can read the values when the form gets submitted,

and that we also then set up a event listener here

to the submission, and validate the user input.

So we need access to the button or to the form overall

to listen for the submission and to all the input elements

to get the latest values from there.

For that here, before we attach everything,

but after I assign my ID to the element here,

I wanna get access to the different inputs in that element

in that form, and I wanna store them as properties

of this class, so I'll add more fields up there

and the first field could be a titleInputElement field.

The type will be HTMLInputElement

write this, and we will not just need it once

we need two other similar fields.

We a descriptionInputElement field

which is a type HTMLInputElement,

and we also need a peopleInputElement field.

Now we can populate these fields here in the constructor,

with this titleInputElement which is

set equal to this.element,

so to our form element,

always keep in mind that's the form element here,

query selector and then query for the title element.

And if you again have a look at index.html we see in there

we got the ID title on this element

so we can query for that,

so in app.ts here in the query selector we can use

#title to select for the title ID element

and store that in titleInputElement.

Now as you know just as with document get element by ID,

typescript has no chance of understanding

that the query selector is going to return

an input element here.

So to tell typescript, I will again use casting,

and cast this to an input element,

and then we can repeat this step twice,

and also sign the descriptionInputElement,

and the peopleInputElement.

Look up the appropriate IDs in the index.html file,

which are surprisingly, I guess, description and people,

and add them to typescript.

So here we're searching for the description ID element,

and here for people.

And with that we got access to

all these elements inside of our class here, or

inside of every object that is created based on the class.

Now we just need to add a listener

to our element, to our form.

For that I'll add another private method configure,

which you don't have to add

but again I wanna keep that separation where we basically

do the selection and rough set up in the constructor.

And then the insertion

or the fine-tuning in separate methods.

And in the configure method

my idea is to set up an event listener,

so here we can reach out to this element

which is the form and add an event listener.

Now since typescript knows that element is a

HTML form element, it actually offers us auto-completion

when we wanna listen to the submit event here

which is great.

Now we just need to bind this to a method

and for that I'll add another private method,

private because I'm never going to access this from

outside of the class, only from inside.

Which I'll name submitHandler, name is totally up to you.

This should be a method which receives an event object,

'tho because we'll bind it to this event listener.

So here we can point at this...

submit handler.

Now we adjust it to make sure that

before we attach all the call configure and

execute this private method,

again its private so from inside the class

we can of course reach it,

from outside you would get a typescript error,

so now this method should trigger

whenever the form is submitted.

In the submit handler I there wanna

get access to my different input values here,

and validate them,

and then of course do something with the inputs.

Now we will worry about the do something part later,

for now let's just get access to them.

For this first of all I will call event.preventDefault

to prevent the default form submission,

which would trigger an HTTP request to be sent

which I don't want here,

and then just to see where this works,

let's print console.log this title Element value,

to print what's currently in the title input element.

If we saved it you see it compiles with no errors,

so that's looking good.

And if we now go to the console here and enter "Hello!",

and click add project, good is that it didn't get submitted,

bad is that we get an error,

"Cannot read property 'value' of undefined."

Now what's going wrong here?

The problem here is that, this here, that this keyword

in submitHandler does not point at the class actually.

Why?

Well because of the way JavaScript and typescript works,

we bind the method here to the event listener

and when we bind something to an event

or with the help of an event listener

then that's something so that method,

which is going to get executed,

will have this bound to something else,

in this case to the current target of the event.

So this end of this method will not point at the class,

when the method is triggered upon an event

with an event listener.

Now the work around or the solution is to actually

call bind here on submitHandler to

preconfigure how this function is going execute

when it executes in the future,

and the first argument we can pass to bind then

is actually what the this keyword will refer to

inside of the to be executed function.

And here I pass this which means,

this inside of submitHandler will refer to

the same thing as this refers to in this context.

And since we call it in the context of configure here,

which we call with this configure,

this ends out of configure will refer to the class,

and thanks to bind, it will there for all,

also refer to the class ends out of the submitHandler.

So if you now save this here,

and we reload,

and enter "Hello!" here,

you now see "Hello!" gets printed here

when we submit the form.

So now this is solved

and now we're dealing with this properly.

But maybe there is a better way,

or an alternative way we've all have learned about.

Maybe one using decorators,

so here's your chance to again pause this

and try solving this binding with decorators,

because that's something we did learn about

in the decorators section.

