I'm talking about a decorator, which we can add
which automatically binds the "this" keyword
so that we don't have to call bind here.
Now obviously calling bind here is not a big thing
if there's nothing wrong with it,
but we also wanna practice what we learned and
if we have to do this in many many places across our app
having a decorator, which we just can add
might actually be easier.
So, let's get rid of bind this here.
And instead, above the class here,
I'll add the auto bind decorator
and I'm just adding some comments here
to keep this file organized, at least a bit.
ProjectInput Class
So, what is a decorator?
A decorator is a function, right?
And you can find it either with
the function decoration here or as a function expression.
So, here I'll use a function decoration,
and I'll name it autobind, name is up to you.
And this decorator will receive free arguments
the target,
the method name to which it is bound,
because I am going to create a method decorator here.
And also the descriptor
of that
method.
Uh, property descriptor because methods in the end
are just properties, properties which hold functions.
Now, why is this a method decorator?
Because the idea is that we can add it to submitHandler
like this, and be done with it.
That's the idea.
Now, we're not entirely there yet,
but this is how it should work in the end.
Now, to make it work, let's go back to our function up there
and what has to go into the function body then?
Well, in there, I first of all
want to get access to the original method.
With descriptor.value so that we store the method
with which we originally defined.
Then I wanna create my adjusted descriptor here
which is a object.
I'll type PropertyDescriptor, actually.
Where configurable should be set to true,
so that we can always change it.
And where we then need a getter.
And in that getter, here, which should be executed
when you try to access the function.
We will set up the bound function here,
by using the original method
which we are extracting up there.
And calling bind this on it.
Then,
I want to return that bound function,
and that should be all.
And overall of course,
I will therefore return the adjusted descriptor
in that method decorator.
Now we get an error with that, on the submitHandler.
That, experimental support for decorators is a feature
which basically needs to be enabled.
So we should go to the tsconfig file,
and in there just scroll down.
You should find that "experimentalDecorators" option
just comment that in.
And add a comma in front of it.
Save that, and then restart the types compilation process.
Now, it still shows me some errors here,
if I expand this,
the methodName is declared, but its value is never read.
In app.ts line four.
It's referring to this here,
I got this argument, which I received here
which I actually never used.
Same is true for target, I never used that.
Now, there are two ways to solve this.
One way, is to go to the tsconfig,
and loosen our strictness rules, here.
noUnusedParameters, if we set this to false
we're actually allowing unused parameters.
So, this would be one thing,
or you use special names
underscore,
and underscore two.
This actually is, a hint for typescript and javascript
that you are aware that
you are not going to use these values,
but you need to accept them
because you need the argument they're after.
If you now save this, this compiles without errors
and if we go back and enter hello here
and submit this, it still works
now thanks to our auto bind decorator.
Which hopefully also shows that this decorator
can have some real use.
Now of course here is actually a bit more work,
than just calling bind.
But imagine this being used on more and more methods
which all have to be bound.
Not having to call bind this manually,
can then re-save you some time,
and also prevent some potential errors
in cases where you just forgot it.
