So, now that we're able to fetch the user input

and all the validated with the help of our TypeScript,

the driven validation logic here.

Let's move on and let's make sure we do more

with that gathered user input than just output it

in the console.

Because at the moment,

there's of course is what we're doing, right.

In the end, I'm just printing the things deed information

we gathered to do console,

and that's not our final goal in this application.

Instead, the goal is, should be that we also rendered

this list of projects here based on this template,

where every project item is based on this template here.

And we output the information that we gathered here.

So, that will be the next thing, I wanna work on.

Besides having our project input clause here,

which is responsible for rendering the forum

and gathering the user input,

I wanna have the number of clause

which is responsible for rendering a list of projects.

And actually we'll split that into two clauses.

One clause for the list

and one class per project item in the list.

And then we need to find some way of passing that

gathered input here basically to our project list

and add a new item to it.

So let's tackle this step by step, I'd say,

and let's start by adding a project list class.

Now at the exact place where you added, it's up to you.

The order does not matter because Java script in the end

will parse this entire file entirely before it executes it.

So, it will be aware of all classes.

Still, I will add it here above the project input clause

because I'd kind off rely on the project list clause,

which I'm about to build inside of the project input class,

but again it does really matter.

So, here I'll have my project list clause, project list,

and the idea of this clause here is a bit related

to what we did in a project input.

I wanna reach out to my template here and then render it

in a certain place off the application.

And therefore, what we can do here is we can again

add a constructor, we can add the fields we need

and there will need to template element

and the host element in the end,

so, we can add both here to our project list.

We'll also need to element itself,

I'd say so the concrete element, which is getting rendered.

And the types will differ though.

The host element will still be a div

because I wanna render that list in that div here as well.

But the concrete element, which we do render.

Of course, it's not a form element, but if we have a look

at our list template here,

we see there's a section inside of it.

So, we have a section element.

Now turns out there is no element and those section element,

so we'll just have a regular HTML element

because every element has this type here for some tax.

There are more specialized types if they are,

and we can just use HTML type.

So, now of course we need to get access to these elements.

So, we can copy this code here

actually from the constructor of the project input

added to the constructor of project list

and now adjust some things.

For example, my template element of course now doesn't have

an idea of project input.

That's now project list instead.

So, let's copy that and use this here to select the element.

I will still cost it, and I still know with certainty

that I get it so dis doesn't change.

The host elements still is to death with the ID app.

So this does not change.

Then I import my content and then I, well, the store,

the first element.

Off the import, the template.

So basically the first element in the template, which is the

section, I stored that in the element property here.

However, this is not an HTML form element.

It's just an HTML element here.

Now we also can assign an ID here and actually did, should

be dynamic, not hard-coded because we'll have more than one

list of projects.

I want to have tool lists in the final app, one for the act

of projects and one for the enact of projects, and they

offer, I want to get some additional information to

constructor.

The type of the project, and I'll use stats, TypeScript

shortcut.

You learn about where you can add an accessor in front of

the parameter, private or public to automatically create a

property of the same name and store the value that's passed

an on this argument in that equally named property.

So now this class will have a property name to type as well.

And now the question is, what's the type of this type

parameter?

And this should actually be a literal type and a union type.

It's either active or finished.

We even have active projects or finished projects.

So that's an argument I expect to get when the project list

is instantiated.

And with dad, we have to type property D ID should be then

be based on this.

It should be, and for dad, I use a template literal here.

It should be type dash projects, so either active dash

projects or finished dash projects.

That's my idea here.

You can always use this dot type so that TypeScript

understands that we're using this property and that it's not

unused.

So with that, we're getting access to all the core elements

and we're adding an ID to the section, which we get out of

our template.

Now, of course, we want a, we want to render it right?

That's the idea for this all, again, at a private method.

Attach justice.

We had it in the project input and in there it's now the

goal queue.

Well, attach this to the Dom to now render dad list to the

Dom.

So instead of attach, I will actually do the same as I did

an attach for the project form.

So we can copy that line here and attitude attach.

I have my host element and I want to insert an adjacent

element.

After the beginning, and this should be the element.

We extract that from the template here.

However, I actually don't want to do that after the

beginning, but instead before end, which means before the

closing, tack off the host element and then we can call

attach here in the constructor, of course, to attach our

created element here to the Dom.

Now there is one important difference compared

to the project input though for this list.

It's not done with just adding the list to the Dom.

The input was finished, right?

The form here was finished.

We had all the inputs there.

All we needed to do was set up an event listener.

Now for the list here, we actually haven't had her with an

empty.

H to tech, for example, and I wanna add some texts there.

So I will add a number.

New method to your private method.

Render or content could be a fitting name.

And my idea here is to fill the blank spaces in that

template with some life year.

For that.

Let's go to dead render content method, and there are a

couple of things I want to do.

One thing is stat for dead unordered list, which is part of

my project list here.

I wanna add an ID to it.

Of course you don't have to do that, but I want to do that

so that if we need to select it later, we can do that with

these.

So I'll create a list ID here is stored in a constant, and

this will be a template literal, so it will be a string

where we can inject dynamic content, and I want to base this

on the type of the surrounding project list, so off the

surrounding section, and then add projects list thereafter.

Now we can reach out to the an order list, which we get in

our element, which is stat section year, right element is

dead section.

So to get the unordered list inside of there, we can, for

example, use a query selector and search for the first, and

in this case only unordered list.

We know we will get one because we know there will be one

and then we can add an ID here, which should be the list ID.

That's one thing which I want to do.

I also want to set the text content off that age to tag here

and for this we can reach out to this element, query

selector.

Find the first and only HQ tag.

We know we will find one, hence the exclamation Mark to rule

out dead null case and set the text content equal to this to

type to upper case.

Remember type is ever active.

We're finished with two opera case.

We convert this to all caps plus projects, so does a Sten.

Simply the heading forward is section.

And now with that, we're, we're generally done.

We have no items in that list yet.

We'll work on this later, but we're generally done.

We can call this render a content or after we attached it to

the Dom, for example.

Now it would be nice to see those in action.

Of course, again, list items ends on will be missing, but it

would be nice to see something in action here.

Well for that, let's go to the bottom of the file where we

instantiate the project input and there we cannot always

instantiate our lists.

We have the active project list, which we instantiate, but

calling new project list.

And there we have to pass in that type argument, which is

either active or finished here.

Since I'm rendering the active list, I of course pass

inactive.

And then here we have the finished project list where I of

course, passing finished.

If we now safe that it should compile without errors.

And hence what you should see if you go back are these two

empty sections here with the headings here and well, the

empty space where later items will be added, project items

will be added.

Now for the moment, we have no such project items, snow.

So as a next step, we should

work on some way of making sure

that when we click add project, that we create a new project

in code.

So a new data structure which represents a project, and that

we then pass this information about this new project to the

act of projects.

List here to this active project section, because every new

project should be active by default.

This will be our next goal, and again, there will be many

different ways of implementing this.

We'll do it together with one way I came up with in the next

lecture.

