So you did learn about

explicit type assignments, about type inference,

and where you can assign types or infer types.

But up to this point in all these basic examples here,

we always worked with exactly one type, one kind of value.

Username must be a string.

User age must be a number.

But you sometimes have situations

where you need more flexibility

and that's why TypeScript also offers more flexible types

that you can use in cases

where you need the extra flexibility.

For example, let's say we have an age variable

and initially, that age variable is a number.

But then somewhere in our program we might assign

an age as a string, so a number in a string, so to say.

Now this will fail because due to this initial value,

TypeScript infers that age is of type number.

If we then try to assign a string to that variable,

we therefore get an error as expected and as you learned it.

But what if you do want to accept both a number

and a string?

Well, in that case, you could add

an explicit type assignment, even though we could infer

a type here.

But if the inferred type is not the type you want,

you could add an explicit type assignment in addition

and then assign the any type,

which is another type built into TypeScript.

And this any type really does what the name applies.

It accepts any kind of value.

As you see, the error down here went away

because now we can store both a number and a string in age.

However, we can also store a bullion, an object, an array,

and any other kind of value in that variable now,

and that's not necessarily what you want,

because any really does allow any kind of value

and therefore, using this any type kind of defeats

the purpose of using TypeScript.

Because the idea behind using TypeScript

was that you could define which kinds of values may be used

where in your code, and with any,

you are allowing everything.

You are essentially back to Vanilla JavaScript with that.

And that's why you should typically use this any type

really only as a last resort if you really can't

or don't want to be more specific.

But if you can be more specific,

there is a better alternative to any,

which still gives you more flexibility than a single type.

