So getting projects from A to B

is now our goal.

To be precise, when users create a new project,

when they enter all the data,

we wanna create a new project object in the end,

which we then output in our project list class

as part of the unordered list,

which is rendered there.

That's the idea.

Of course a trivial way of implementing this

could be to simply go to the place

where the user input is entered

and then here use document.getElementbyId,

to reach out for that unordered list

we rendered as part of our project list class,

which has this ID here,

so active-projects list or finished-projects list,

and then simply reach out to that

and add a new item to it.

But that's not really the idea

of how I wanna build this application.

I wanna build it in an object oriented way

where we have our different classes

that work together in a reactive way

where we create a new class

and then something happens in the dom.

Where we call a method of a class

and then this class does something.

That's how I want these things to work.

Now of course we could add a method

to the project list class,

let's say I add project method.

That method should then be called

when a project should be added and rendered,

and we would have to find some way of calling it

from inside the project input.

To do that, we could make sure

that we actually pass references to our list here,

to the project input constructor,

so that from inside the project input class,

we can work with these concrete instances

and call the methods on these instances.

Because that is what we would have to do.

That would be a viable way,

definitely an approach you could take,

but I wanna take an even more abstract approach.

Even more interesting approach in my opinion.

I will build a class which manages the state

of our application, so to say,

a class which manages our projects,

or whichever state we might need to manage

in the application,

which also allows us to then set up listeners

in the different parts of the app that are interested.

This is a pattern that might sound familiar to you

if you worked with frameworks like Angular

or libraries like React and Redux.

That you have a global state management object

and you just listen to changes.

That is what I wanna implement here.

Of course it's just one way of doing this,

but I think it's a quite interesting way,

which is why I want to show it.

So at the top of the app ts file,

I'll add a project state management class.

And I will simply name is projectState;

sounds like a sensible name to me.

Now the idea here is that in this class

we have a property or a field,

a private field, projects,

which holds an array of projects.

Now we also need to define how a project should look like,

we'll do that in the next step,

for now I'll just say it's an array of anything,

which of course is not perfect, not final,

but I wanna focus on that state management solution for now.

So we have this list of projects here.

Now my goal is that I wanna add an item to that list

whenever we, well click that add project button here.

To make that work, inside of the project state class,

I'll add an add project method, a public one.

And there I expect to get the title,

which should be a string,

the description, which should be a string,

and also the number of people working on the project,

which should be a number.

Then in here, we can create a new project

with the object literal notation for now.

Where we should have some ID for every project

so that we can uniquely identify it,

and I'll generate an ID here by using

math.random().toString.

Now a random number is not really a unique ID,

you can generate the same number more than once,

but it's very unlikely,

and for our demo purposes here it will do.

Now besides that every project should have a title

and there will store that title argument we're getting.

Same for description,

where I will store description.

And my people where I will store the number of people.

This, for now, is the project I wanna store.

So once we created it here,

we can reach out to the projects array in projects state,

which is private,

but from inside the class,

which this method is,

we can access it of course.

And there I wanna add this new project

and for that we can simply push our new project to it.

Now with that, we are able to add a project.

But we still, of course, have a couple of unclear questions.

How do we call add project from inside our class down there

where we gather the user input

from inside the submit handler?

How do we call add project?

And how do we pass that updated list of projects

whenever it changes to the project list class?

These are the two issues we of course face at the moment.

Well, one thing I will do here,

is I will create an instance of project state here.

A global instance, which we could use from the entire file,

and I'll do it right after we create that class.

So here I have my project state constant

where I instantiate project state like this.

This way this is a global constant

that can be used any where in the file,

so talking to that class is now super simple,

you just have to use this global constant here.

We can even use a feature we all learned about,

the private constructor,

to guarantee that this is a singleton class.

We can create a private constructor here

and then we have another private property here,

instance, which is of type project state,

so the same type this class is of.

And we then add a get instance method here,

a static method actually,

where we check if this .instance is a thing,

and for that,

this actually also have to be a static instance,

a static property, I mean.

If this is a thing,

if it is, we return this .instance,

so we return out single instance we got,

otherwise we create a new one.

So otherwise,

this .instance will be equal to new project state.

And then we return this .instance.

Now with that, we can call get instance down there,

like this, ProjectState.getInstance,

and we're guaranteed to always work

with the exact same object

and will always only have one object of the type

in the entire application.

Which is the idea here,

because I only wanna have one state management object

for our project.

So that is this project state

with this singleton constructor now.

So now we have our project state constant.

Let's go down to the project input class

therefore where we gather the user input.

Here, we can now call projectState.addProject

and forward the title, the description and the people,

we get back from gather user input in the end.

So now this project should get created.

Now we just need to push that information

that we have a new project to our project list class,

because that's the class which is responsible

for outputting something to the screen.

And for that I wanna set up a subscription pattern

in the end.

Where inside of our project state

we manage a list of listeners,

so a list of functions in the end,

which should be called whenever something changes.

So for that

I'll add another private property here, listeners.

And listeners will be an empty array

and for now, again, just an array of anything

we will specify this in greater detail later.

Now I also want to have a method here

addListener where I get a listener function,

so this should be a function in the end here.

And I will then add this to my listeners.

So we push the listener function here

to, well the listeners array.

Now what's the idea of having that listeners array?

It's an array of functions,

of function references right?

The idea is that whenever something changes,

like here when we add a new project,

we call all listener functions.

So we loop through all listeners,

of this listener,

so through all listener functions,

and then since these are function references,

we can execute this as a function.

And to that function,

we pass the thing that's relevant for it,

based on the state we're managing,

which is in this case, in this class of course,

is our projects list.

This is the state this class is responsible for.

So here,

I forward this project

and I will call slice on it

to only return a copy of that array

and not the original array.

So that it can't be edited from the place

where the listener function is coming from.

Because arrays and objects

are reference values in Javascript,

so if you would pass the original array,

we could edit it from outside

and also on the same hand,

if we push something to it from inside this class,

it would already change every where else in the app,

but these places would not really notice that it changed,

so it could introduce strange bugs

if we pass around the original reference,

which is why I pass around the brand new copy,

a brand new array here.

So now every listener function is getting executed

and gets our copy, our brand new copy of projects.

Now we just need to go to the places

where we want to be informed about changes,

in our case, the project list class here,

and set up such a listener.

So here, in the constructor of the project list class,

before we attach and render the content,

I will reach out to projectState

and call addListener here

to basically register a listener function here.

Now a listener, as I said, is a function,

so we have to pass a function to addListener.

Because the listeners we're managing here

in the project state,

that's just a list of functions,

which we will eventually call

when something changes right?

So I will need to pass a function

to my addListener function here.

Here I'm passing an anonymous arrow function.

And that function will get a list of projects

when it's called from inside projectState.

So we get a list of projects, we know that,

inside of this function body,

we can then use this list of projects.

And here I will add a brand new field to the project list,

assignedProjects maybe,

which is of type any array,

so anything in an array,

and array of any values,

well of course I'll also specify this

in greater detail later.

Then here we can say this assigned project

is equal to projects.

So to the projects we're getting.

Now here to get rid of that

implicit any type error,

I have to be clear that this will actually be

an array of anything here.

So now I'm adding the projects

which I get because something changed in my state.

Here to my assigned projects

where I'm not adding it,

I'm overriding the assigned projects

with the new projects.

And then my idea is to render all these projects.

For that we can add a new method;

renderPrjects, for example.

Which I wanna call from in here,

this renderProjects, just like this.

It ends out of renderProjects.

I'll reach out to this list here,

right, we assign that ID when we render the content,

which we do here.

It looks like we do this after renderProjects is called,

but keep in mind, that ends out of a function,

which will only eventually be called

once new projects are added.

So actually renderContent will run first.

And therefore, in renderProjects we can rely on this ID

being assigned to an unordered list,

so here we can grab this

and get our list element by using document.getElementbyId

and then I just pass on this ID identifier

using the type of this concrete project list class.

And then also using, well the rest of this ID we generated.

And to that list or in that list

I wanna render all the projects we have.

So, I will go through all the project items

of this assigned projects here.

And then for every item I wanna add something

to the list

and we'll refine this later.

For the moment, I will just call appendChild here

on my list element.

By the way here we should add an exclamation mark

to make it clear that this will not be null.

We can also cast this to an HTML UL list element,

so to an unordered list element

because that is what it will be.

And then we can append the child here

and that should be a brand new list item;

so here we can create our list item

with document.createElement LI.

And on that list item here,

I just will set the text content equal to project

Item.title.

Every project item will be a project

as we create it up there in the project state,

so it will be such an object,

and therefore it will have a title.

Now with that if we go down there

we have our list item which now is added here.

And with that we're almost there,

remaining fixes here,

I set up that field,

but in the constructor I then never reference it.

Only here in my listener function,

but as mentioned, this does not run immediately

in the constructor.

So what I'll do here is I will set this assigned projects

equal to an empty array here initially,

so that we're all happy and this is initialized.

Now if we save this,

it should compile without errors.

And now if we add something here,

does this work?

We indeed see it show up in our lists.

In both lists at the moment

because we have no filtering logic and so on.

And that is something we can fix later,

but it does work,

and that's the important thing.

Now you see we also have a bug here however.

If I add a second element,

we duplicate the last element

and add the new elements,

so that's something we'll have to fix.

And these are all things we will tackle,

but now at least we're able to output something

with that, let's dive into all the improvements

like being clearer about the types we're using,

avoiding the duplicate output,

and many other things as well.

