As a next step, I wanna work on these types here,
the any type I'm using here for my assigned projects,
for the listeners here,
and also for the projects in the project state.
Of course, here, I don't wanna work with any,
it would make more sense to have
a dedicated project class or project type, which we can use.
And indeed, I will create a class for that
project
type,
simply by using class project
so that we have a way of building project objects,
which always have the same structure.
Right now I'm doing it down there with the literal notation.
The downside of that, of course, is that we have to remember
that it's description and not Desc.
that we need an ID, which is a string,
and so on.
So that's where a custom type can help us
and I'll create a class and not an interface
or a Custom type with the type keyword
because I want to be able to instantiate it.
So how should such a class look like
or such a project look like to be precise?
Well, I'll add a constructor
and then use this shortcut of assigning arguments
or parameters to the constructor,
which then automatically become properties as well,
by adding the accessor at the beginning,
Public, in this case,
and then the name of the argument and property,
and then the type.
And here every project should have an ID.
Every project should have a title,
which also is a string, just like the ID.
It should have a description,
which is a string,
it should have a People property,
which is a number
that's the number of people assigned to a project.
And one thing I also want to add,
which we didn't have thus far,
is actually a project status.
Because right now when we add a project here,
it appears in both lists.
Now, I want to add status to a project
which of course can be changed
so that we actually can filter for active projects
in the first box and finished projects in a second box.
So to be only show the right projects at every box.
So for that I'll add another public property here, status.
And now the question of course is
which type should this status have?
Now we could use a union type with two literal types
Active and Finished what we used earlier already.
But here, I always want to introduce
or reintroduce another type you learned about,
and that's the Enum.
The Enum perfect here because we have exactly two options.
And here in the context of this project object,
we also don't need a text which makes sense to humans,
which we store as a value,
but we really just need some identifier.
So here I'll add a new Enum project status.
And I want to have two values there,
Active and Finished.
And then here, this status will be of type
project status just like that.
This is now my project class.
With that here, we can say that this is an array
of projects using that project class.
And of course, when we create a project here,
we do that by using new project
project,
not project state.
And here to project we forward an ID in this case,
as mentioned before,
a random number which we convert to a string,
then the title,
then the description,
then the NUM of People here,
and then also, of course, that's status, right.
And one thing I want to have here in this application
in this demo project is that every new project
by default is active.
So when we create a new project here,
we assign projectstatus.active
here as a value for the status
with that, we have to project which we add.
And now there's one other place
where we need the project class.
And that is here in project List class
there, we have the Assign projects property.
And of course, that should always be an array of projects.
Now with that we're using Beta typing.
And one advantage is that here in render projects,
we now also get auto completion here, for example.
And we would also get an error,
a compilation error if we try to save that,
because now TypeScript understands
with which types we're working here.
So that's the project Class and how we can use that.
Project class isn't the only class However,
we also have the Listener here.
And for that, I'll add a new custom type Listener.
The name is of course up to you.
And I just use a type here because I wanna basically
encode a function type with one word.
So what do we mean with that?
Well, of course, a listener here in our application
is just a function, right?
What we stored in the listeners array
is just a bunch of functions
Add Listener pushes a new function,
and when something changes,
we execute that function.
So here a listener is really just a function.
But it is a function that receives our
items,
certain items in our case and array of projects.
And that then does something with it.
Now to be precise here, of course,
to define a function type,
we don't have curly braces here,
but instead as you learned the return type,
and that will be wide,
which means we don't care about any value
that Listener function might return.
In the place where we work with listeners.
We don't need any return type.
We just want to ensure that
whoever passes as such a listener
expects to get some items when the listener fires.
With that here, we can say that Listeners
is an array of listener well functions in the end.
And here, when I push listener function,
I need to make clear that it's not just any function,
but that it's a type of listener,
then everything works.
Now in the place where we use Add Listener,
which is down there,
we now also, of course,
can enhance our typing and make it clear that here,
we will actually get a bunch of projects.
So now with that, we set up our listener,
we added the project type, and that changes nothing here.
If we now add something that works,
and if I add a second item,
that still gets added besides
the first item being added again,
as well, and we're not doing any filtering
in any of the lists at all.
So before we continue working on our parts,
let's make sure we're not having
this duplication here inside of a single list,
and also not the duplication across both boxes here,
but that instead,
only active projects are Showing up here
and only finished projects
and therefore initially no projects show up here
in finished projects.
So let's fix that.
