So we get two issues,
if we want to call them like that, to fix.
Now I want to start
with the issue that projects show up in both boxes.
I want to introduce some filtering
and the best place to filter is,
of course, our listener function.
If we go to the place where we register our listener,
here in the project list clause.
Then, here, we get a- a list of projects, right?
Now, that list of projects comprises all projects.
Now, inside of the project list clause however,
we're only interested in active or finished projects.
Now, here, by the way,
we could also theoretically use our enum but, actually,
I need the concrete values stored
in the enum down there or in the type down there
and, therefore, here I don't want
to use a enum always
because I want to show the string literal types.
So, what we'll do here inside of our listener function is,
before we store the projects and render them,
we want to filter them.
So, here we have our relevant projects,
you could say, and that's, of course, projects filtered.
The filter method is a default method which exists
on any array in JavaScript.
This takes a function which then executes
on every item in that projects array
and when this function here returns true,
we keep the item
in a newly created array which is then stored
in relevant projects.
If this function returns false, we drop the item,
not from the original list,
but in the new list which is generated
and which is stored in relevant projects.
So, in here, we have to return true or false depending
on whether we want to keep the project or not.
And for that, of course, we just need to look at the status.
Project status is a enum and we want
to check whether project status is equal
to project status active if we're
in an active project list,
so if the type property is active,
or if the project status is finished if we're
in a finished list.
So here I'll actually write a- a real function body
by wrapping this with curly braces,
not using the arrow function shortcut
and then we can check,
if this type is equal active,
then I want to return
the result of this check here else
and therefore, simply after this if statement,
I want to return the comparison
to the finished project status.
With that, we get our relevant projects
which we can now store here,
in assigned projects.
So, let's now see whether it works.
If I reload,
and we add a project here,
does this work?
This works and, you see,
it only is added to active projects,
not to finished projects.
However, if I add a second project here,
we still have that duplication going on.
Now, that's related to how we render our projects.
Inside of render projects,
we always go through all our project items
and append them to the list.
Now, the problem with that, of course,
is that we already might have a project item rendered
out onto the screen.
Now, the best possible solution here would be
to kind of run some comparison
where you check what has already been rendered
and what you need to render,
to avoid unnecessary re rendering.
However, running this comparison
by looking at the real DOM also costs quite a bit
of performance.
For this application here, it's therefore perfectly fine
to simply take our list element
and clear all its content by setting inner HTML
to an empty string,
which means we get rid of all list items
and then re render.
That means that whenever we add a new project,
we re render all projects but,
for the purpose of this project here,
for this application here,
that is absolutely fine.
So, now with that, if we save that,
let's give it another try.
"Does this work?" is the first project
and now if I add another project here,
you see, it gets added
but the other project doesn't get added again.
Whoops and, now, here I got (mumbles) error
because the description wasn't long enough.
So, this now all works, as you can tell
and we're rendering these projects
in the way they should be rendered
which, of course, is right.
And, with that, the application doesn't look too bad.
The one thing that's missing is some drag
and drop functionality or some way
of getting projects from this first list to the second list.
We're also not really outputting the
other information we got,
description and number of people.
So, that's also not great.
And, we also have a bit of code duplication
when we actually have a look at project list
at this clause here
and at the project input clause.
In both we have template element, host element and element
and we have an attach method and so on.
So, I want to improve the code here
and reuse some code by using inheritance
and using a base clause and, thereafter,
I also want to create a dedicated clause
for every project item
where we then just instantiate
that project item clause inside
of project list instead
of appending a list item manually, like this
and then inside that 'to be created' project item clause,
that appending part should happen
and then I also want
to output more information about the project item,
including its description
and the number of people assigned.
So, there is some work left to do
and, before we work on the project item
in that form in which I want to have it,
let's actually make sure we,
first of all add some inheritance to make our project list
and project input, or certain parts of it, more reusable.
