With all our inheritance work out of the way,
let's come back to rendering list items,
let's render more details there.
And as I mentioned, let's also make sure
we render them differently.
Thus far we followed an object oriented approach,
and for example, for our project list we have a class
and when we instantiate that class such a box
gets rendered here.
And the same for the input, we have a project input class,
and when we instantiate that, this project input area here
at the top gets rendered.
Now why don't we do the same for our project item
and then inside of project list in rendered projects
instead of creating a list item like this,
we would just instantiate our project item class
and in the constructor of that project item class
we would then do all the initialization and so on.
That is my idea at least.
Now as always, you can pause the video here
and try this on your own first,
but after a short break, which I give you to pause
the video if you want to, we'll do it together.
So let's do that together, and for that above the
project list class, I will add the project item class,
and this will be the class responsible for rendering
a single project item.
Now the project item class should always extend
the component, because it will be a class that is
responsible for rendering something on the screen,
and that is what we have our component class for, right,
that is what we build it for.
So that we pass a template, a host element and so on.
So in project item, we of course need a constructor,
a constructor where we then also have to call super.
And actually before we call super, let's set these generic
types for the base class for inheriting.
Keep in mind, the first type we pass in there
is the host element, so where we wanna render something.
The second generic type we pass in,
is the element we do render.
So in the case of the project item,
that means that the first element we pass in is,
since it's the place where we want to render something,
is an HTML U List,
an unordered list,
because every project item will be rendered inside
of our, well unordered list.
And the second element will be a HTML LI Element,
so the concrete list item element which will be created.
Now choose super, we need to provide the Id of the element
where the project item should be rendered in.
And of course that Id
is not fixed,
because we have two lists
where the item could be rendered to.
So I expect to get that Id here in the constructor,
there I wanna get the host Id,
let's say,
which should be a string, we can forward that to super.
However the first thing we forward to super,
is the template Id, for a single list item,
and that is this template here.
So we can just wrap that.
Now of course that's a very simple template,
you could argue whether you really need that,
it's just a list item, we could create that in code
with document create element as well,
but in order to be able to reuse our component base clause
which relies on templates, we will use this approach.
So single project is the template Id, host Id,
then it's the Id I wanna forward to the
base clause constructor.
Then to answer the question, whether this should be
rendered at the beginning or at the end.
Well, every new list item should actually be added to the
end of the list, though that is totally up to you,
you can also add it to the beginning if you want to,
but here I'll go with the end and therefore
I will pass false here.
And then for the new element Id,
sell the Id that should be assigned to the
newly created element.
I expect to get that from outside as well,
because that will also differ for every project item,
we will render multiple such items after all.
So here I expect to get the Id which it all
to be a string, in which I then just forward.
So that's now the constructor.
Now it would all make sense to store the project
that belongs to this project item in this
project item class.
And with project I mean the project based on our
project class, which we created up there.
This is basically what we work with, the data we work with.
And I wanna store the project which belongs to this
rendered project item in that project item class.
So therefore here we can add a private property project
for example, but should be of type project like this.
In the constructor we then do get the Id
and we can simply change this to actually
get the project here like this,
and then simply say this project equal project,
and here since every project has a Id property,
we just forward project.id.
I think that set-up makes a bit more sense.
Now we always need to add a couple of methods,
we need to add a configure method of course.
We need to add render content method, that is required
by our base class which we're extending.
And it always call configure and render content here
at the end of the constructor.
Now regarding the configuration, there is nothing
we need to do right now for the content we wanna render,
there definitely is work to do.
Now we have a very simple template here,
and we could actually change this here
in the index HTML file to be a bit more complex,
so that every project has a h2 tag,
has a h3 tag below that let's say,
and also has a paragraph,
so that we can output the title of the project,
the number of persons assigned maybe,
and then the description.
And then here in app ts in render of content,
we just need to reach out to these different elements
in our element,
so to the h2 tag and so on,
and then insert some content.
So there we can reach out to this element,
which is our rendered element,
so which is our rendered LI Element.
And in there we now need to select these different things.
So we can use query selector h2,
and set the text content here.
Let's say to this.project.title to render the title there.
Of course we should add an exclamation mark here to
make it clear that we'll always get this element
which we know with certainty
because it's part of our template.
Well then actually, we can just repeat this,
but now look for the h3 tag,
and there I wanna output the number of persons,
however where people is the property name,
however I'll tweak this a little bit.
Now for one this here, is a number,
and this one's a string,
so actually I'll call to string here.
But that's not the main problem, actually I wanna tweak
this so that it outputs more than just a number here,
but I'll come back to that.
First of all, let's repeat this one more time,
and query for the paragraph here.
And set this equal to this project.description.
Now, again I will tweak this later,
for now let's leave it as it is.
And with that we have a project item
that should be rendered,
and that should then set out all it's content.
So now we need to use the project item,
and the place to use it is the project list,
because that renders the list of projects.
And there specifically in render projects,
this is where we need to make sure that we render
our project items.
Here we do go through all the project items
in assigned projects.
And assigned projects is this property here,
which has a list of or an array of projects.
So now here in this loop, instead of creating
a list item manually and so on,
I will get rid of all of that and simply say
new project item here,
and now two project item.
We need to pass the idea of the host,
now that of course is the Id that was sat on our
list item here.
So basically this.element.id,
that's the Id of the host element,
because this element which is is the unordered list
should be the host.
Then second argument here,
is the project and that's purged item here basically.
So this constant which we get inside of the loop.
And now the attachment will happen
inside of project item or inside of the base clause
of the component class, which project items extends.
And instantiating project item should be all we need to do.
So if we save that and we go back and we have this
code here again, or we have this input again.
You see, this gets rendered, and this doesn't look too bad.
Now there are two things which I don't like,
of course that bullet point here, not too fond of that.
And just having the free here,
all is not super happy about this.
So how can we fix this now?
To fix the bullet point, let's inspect our content.
And what we see there is that the list item actually
is rendered outside of the unordered list.
So it's not inside of it.
If it were inside, then it would work properly,
but I can't drag it there.
So we need to make sure it gets rendered inside
of the unordered list.
So let's find out why that's not the case.
It's probably not the case because in project item,
I pass false here, to the base clause constructor,
and passing false here means it's not getting inserted
at the start, and that in turn means that in attach
we have before and as a value here,
where it's getting inserted.
This is however what we want to have happen,
so that's probably not the problem.
Well, the problem still is that of course we're
inserting it in the host element.
And now let's think again, what's the host element
of project list?
And that's in the end what matters here,
because when we render our projects,
we create a new project item,
and I forward the Id of our element here,
of the rendered element
in the project list to project item.
So that will then be the idea of the host element
of a single project item.
But what is this element here?
This element here is not the unordered list
we have in that box,
it's the box itself it's our section.
If we inspect the template we see, the section here
is what actually gets rendered for our project list class.
It's not just the list,
it's the section which also includes a header.
So we actually need to access to the list
inside of our element here,
and then get access to the idea of that list,
because here, we do actually set an Id on that list,
so there will be an Id, we just have to
grab the right one.
So getting the idea of the element itself
is simply not correct.
Instead here, we should get the idea
of the unordered list in our element,
and we know with certainty that there will be
an unordered list,
so we can skip the null check
by adding the exclamation mark.
Now with that added, if we add a new element here,
this looks better, now the bullet point is gone,
because now the proper styling is applied,
since the LI, the list item is now really added
inside of the unordered list as you can see.
Now that's one thing, now let's move on to that five,
because just out putting a five here
is not really what I wanna do.
How about outputting a bit more useful information.
