So let's now come to the end of this project,

and that involves the possibility to drag and drop

a project which we have in one of the boxes,

for example, in the active projects box

into the other box.

So, to basically switch the project from being

an active project to being a finished project.

So, it's also not just about the visual update

it's not just about dragging and dropping it

and updating the UI, it's also about adjusting

the data behind the scenes in our state management class

the project state where we manage a list

of projects in the end, keep in mind

that every project does have a status property

and we'll need to update that as well.

So, two things we need to implement: drag and drop

and then all of this behind the scenes state

and data update.

Now let's start with drag and drop,

and for that we will basically implement drag and drop

as we would do it in vanilla java script

which you, for example, can learn about

in my complete java script guide.

Basically, it's all about implementing a bunch

of event listeners and of course you will see

how it works in this module in the next lectures,

but we'll implement it in typescript style,

so we'll enhance it by using some typescript features.

So, let's get started and how do I want to enhance it

with typescript features?

Well I want to reuse interfaces here.

Drag and drop interfaces,

but not just to define the structure

of some objects as we previously used interfaces

but instead to really setup a contract

which certain classes can sign

to force these classes to,

to basically implement certain methods

that help us with drag and drop.

To be precise I'm thinking about two interfaces,

and of course, using these interfaces will be optional

but this will allow us to, well,

basically provide some code that forces a class

to implement everything it needs

to be draggable or to be a valid drop target

which if we were building a bigger application

could help us write cleaner code

and more understandable code, especially

when working in a team.

So, which interfaces am I talking about?

I want to have one interface,

which I'll name draggable,

and I'll have a second interface

which I'll name drag target.

My idea here is that we can add

the draggable interface to any class

that renders and element which can be draggable.

In our example, that would be the project item class.

The project item class is responsible

for rendering, well, these project items

and these should be the draggable pieces,

and the boxes, active projects and finished projects,

so here our project list class should be drag targets.

Now, what do these interfaces force to be implemented

or to be added to the classes then?

Let's start with draggable.

Here, we basically need two event listeners

and therefore two handlers for these events.

A drag start handler, which will be a method

and a drag end handler,

because when implementing drag and drop

the thing which you want to drag

will require some listener that listens

to the start of that drag event

and also, potentially a listener

that listens to the end of the drag event

so that can do any kind of updates there

which you want to do.

Now, the drag start event handler

will get an event object which we

will have called drag event, that's a built in type,

types with options libs, because of our TS conflict setup

and the libs we're adding there

and it will not return anything

it will be a method which executes

but which then just does something,

configures the drag event for example,

but does not return.

Now the drag end handler gets a similar event,

it also gets a drag event and it all returns nothing.

Now, of course you will see how we apply those

in just a few seconds, so bare with me.

Now, what about the drag target?

Well, for the target, so the box

onto which we can drag something

there are three event handlers I want to implement.

A drag over handler,

a drop handler,

and a drag leave handler.

Now, what do these things do?

Now, you need to implement a drag over handler

when implementing drag and drop in java script

to basically signal the browser in java script

that the thing you're dragging something over

is a valid drag target.

If you don't do the right in the drag over handler,

dropping will not be possible.

You need the drop handler then

to react to the actual drop that happens,

so if the drag over handler will permit the drop

with the drop handler will handle the drop

and then here we can update our data

and UI for example and the drag leave handler

can be useful if we're, for example,

giving some visual feedback to the user

when he or she drags something over the box

for example, we change the background color

well if no drop happens and instead it's canceled

or the user moves the element away we can use

the drag leave handler to revert our visual update.

Now, all three handlers all receive a drag event

and don't return anything,

so let's update them appropriately like this.

And also for this last handler here.

And now we configured some interfaces

which on their own don't do much,

but now we can use them and I want to start

with the project item.

So let's find our project item class for this

here's the component, here's the project item,

and now you might remember that an interface

cannot just be used to define a custom object type

but that you can use it as a contract on a class.

You can call implements, or add implements here

after your class name

and after potential extensions you are doing

and then implement the interface.

In this case, the draggable interface.

Now, when you do so, and I just formatted this

to bring it in a new line to make it easier to read.

When you do so, you get an error now

that that the class here incorrectly implements

the interface because that draggable interface forces us

to add two methods, if you remember.

So, let's add them here.

Maybe we'll load a constructor.

Let's add a drag start handler

which gets an event of type drag event

and let's also add our drag end handler

which receives our drag event.

And now we have these two methods added.

Now, that alone does not enable drag and drop.

It just helps us write draggable components

or draggable classes in a uniform way,

so if we add more and more classes

which should be draggable, we always will have these methods

which simply makes it easier to reason about our code

and to work our code, especially when working

in a team, because everyone knows where to put

in work for the drag start event.

Now what this does not do, of course, is listen

to a drag start event.

That's something we can do in the configure method

which you already have though.

We can reach out to our rendered element

and add an event listener to it

and there, that would be the drag start event.

The drag start event is one event,

one default browser dom event you can listen to

and the even handler we want to trigger,

of course, is the drag

start handler, at which we can point here.

Now, we also want to be sure that

inside of the drag start handler

that this keyword refers to our class

and as you learn with event listeners

that would by default would not be the case,

so we could use bind here and bind this

that would be valid, but we have a better way actually.

We added out auto bind decorator

so I'm just going to add this here

to the drag start handler.

Now, we can also listen to the drag end event here

and point at the drag end handler.

You can also add auto bind there

if you plan on using the vis keyword here

for the moment I will just log drag end

in here so that we see that is triggered

because here I actually have nothing specific I want to do

with it and therefore I will also blank this parameter

and basically tell typescript that I'm not using it.

Here in drag start, we will use event

and for the moment, I'll just log the event,

when this event occurs.

Now, that alone won't do the trick though.

If you save everything

and you add some project here,

you'll see that you can't re-drag it, right?

If you try to drag it, that will not work

because you'll also need to change something

in your HTML file.

On this list item, which is getting rendered

for every project, which is the thing you want to drag,

you have to add the draggable attribute

and set this to true.

That is important.

This tells the browser that this will be draggable.

With that, if you saved it, and you re-add a project here,

you see now, this indeed is draggable,

it now is stuck to my mouse

and now we can really move it around here just fine.

You'll also see on the right that a drag event fired

when I started dragging and if I let go, you'll see

the drag end event also fires.

So our listeners are connected

and we can drag, now we can work on the drop target

so on the box where this should be draggable to,

to then add the project to that box.

One this I will also do real quick

is in the apps.css file, on the list items,

so on projects LI, I will add a background color

of white simply so that we can see this a bit better.

So here, project LI, I added the white

so that when we do drag around the project here,

we do have the white background here

so this makes it a bit easier to see.

Doesn't change our next step though.

We want to make his dropabble.

