To make it droppable,
we have to go to the clause,
or to the component in our application,
which should in the end act as a drag target.
So here Project List class is the right clause
and there we can implement our second
interface which we added,
the Drag Target interface.
Now, just as the draggable interface,
this forces us to add certain methods.
To be precise here, we need to add the drag over handler,
the drop handler, and the drag leave handler.
So, let's do that.
Maybe all right here below the constructor above configure.
The exact place is up to you,
the order of methods does not matter.
So here I will add the drag over handler,
where we get our drag event.
I will then add the drop handler here,
where we also get our drag event.
And last but not least, the drag leave handler,
where we also get a drag event.
Now these events, by the way, hold different kinds of data,
but they're all based on the case core event type.
Now we get a couple of different things to do.
Let's start with the drag over handler maybe.
In the drag over handler, I wanna change the appearance
of my box or of the unordered list in there,
to visualize that this is a droppable area.
Because right now when we drag around element,
we get no clue of where we can drop it, right?
Nothing changes on the UI, so I wanna change this.
To change this I'll add a certain css clause
to the unordered list, which you you find in app.css.
The droppable clause which will change the background color
and therefore in here, for a start,
we just need to get access to our unordered list element.
We can do so by reaching out to this element, querySelectror
uL and add an exclamation mark because there will
always be an unordered list there, even if
it hold no elements yet.
We just have to make sure that this key word works here
and we can do so by autobinding this here
to make sure that this keyword is bound
to the surrounding clause.
Then with the list elements selected, we can use
the clause list property of dom elements,
so this is Vanilla JavaScript here again,
and call the add method there to add the droppable clause
to it.
Now with that, we of course have to make sure that
the dragOverHandler actually is fired when we drag something
over this element here, over this rendered section.
To do that in the configure method, where we already have
one listener here, listening to our state changes,
I will also register listeners on the element itself.
The first EventListener there is, of course, the drag over
event and I'll bind this
to the dragOverHandler, unsurprisingly.
Then I'll repeat this because I also want to listen
to the dragLeave event and bind this
to the dragLeaveHandler and to the drop event
and bind this to the dropHandler
because we'll also need that later.
So, with that, we've got this drag over event listener
and the dragOverHandler connected,
but we also got some errors in the code now.
Well, that should be the unused event objects here,
so for the moment, to satisfy typescript,
let's just blank them out.
We'll need them later, but for the moment,
to make this work, let's blank them out
by using underscores here to tell typescript,
"We're fine not using them at the moment."
Now this compiles
and now back in the project, when we add a new project here,
and I drag this, you see when I drag this
over finished projects, the background here got light blue.
Here over active projects, it got light rose,
like a slight pink color.
Just to show this again, if I reload, you see now
we have white backgrounds in the projects, whoops,
and as soon as I start dragging, this here gets light pink
background and when I drag it over finished projects,
the box background changes to light blue.
Now it never changes back to white because we never
removed that droppable clause, but it is a first step.
Of course, dropping still does not work.
Dropping it here does not add the project
because how would it?
We haven't added any logic for this.
So let's make sure to also update the styling when we stop,
when we leave the element.
When we basically drag it over here and then go away.
Make sure that the blue background goes away in that case,
that's what I want to do next.
For that we can use the dragLeaverHandler here
because that will fire whenever we leave this element
with our dragged element.
Now there I of course also want to get access
to my unordered list, so I'll copy that code,
but then there, I wanna remove the droppable clause.
We should now also autobind this so that the this keyword
here refers to the surrounding clause.
If we save that, we add a new element here.
Let's give it a try.
If I start dragging, you see we have our background here
and if I leave, it goes away.
So now the background really is updated.
You see some flickering here because the dragLeave event
also fires if you go from having the mouse cursor
over the background to having it over a rendered element,
but that should be fine here.
It's no big deal here.
So actually, we got the desired effect, I would say.
So the UI is updated just the way it should now,
but of course we're not able to drop
and really transfer data,
so that will be the next step.
