So of course,

our goal is not to just log that ID.

Instead, I wanna extract the project ID here in the log,

in the drop handler.

And with that, the goal is to really move the project now,

or change the project status, to be precise.

Now, how can we do that?

Well, in our state, I would say, in our project state,

where we currently have an addProject method,

we also need a moveProject method.

And the goal of this method will be

to basically switch the status of a project.

Of course, you could also therefore name it,

SwitchProjectStatus, or whatever you want,

but since we're doing drag-and-drop

I'm calling it MoveProject.

So, in MoveProject the goal is to move a project

from the list it's currently in, to a new list.

Now, this doesn't always mean

that we just have to flip the project status

from active to finished and the other way around.

After all, a user could be doing this,

drag-and-drop in the same box.

So, if we then always trigger a method

that switches the status, we would have an unexpected effect

where dropping in the same box

still switches the project to the other box.

So instead, in MoveProject, we really have to know

which project to move, and which box the new box is.

So, which status the new status is.

So, I expect to get the project ID here,

which should be a string, and the new status.

And the new status here, of course,

can be of type ProjectStatus.

And then inside of MoveProject,

I want to find a project with that ID

in my array of projects.

So here, in this array of projects,

and then flip its status.

So for that we can reach out to this project's,

find a project in there,

and the find method is perfect for that.

It runs on every element in this array,

gives us access to every element,

and then we have to return true

if it's the element that we're looking for.

And I wanna return true

if the ID of the element we're currently looking at

is equal to the projectId I'm getting as an argument here,

then we have the element which should change,

and there on this element,

we just have to change the status to the new status.

Now this might be null,

so here I'll call this, project,

stored as now constant called project,

and check if project exists.

And if it exists, then I wannna set the status

equal to the new status here. Simple as that.

This will already change the object in the array

and we're basically done with it.

Of course, however, we're not entirely done.

We now need to let everyone know,

all our listeners, that something changed about our project,

and that they should rerender.

So we have to go through all listeners again,

and since we would repeat code here,

I will outsource this in a new private method,

updateListeners could be a viable name,

and in there I'll have this for loop,

where we go through all listeners and then do something.

And then I will call this updateListeners

both from the addProject,

and also from the moveProject method.

Here, only if we did change something.

So now all listeners will be triggered.

And if you remember, a listener in our app here,

basically leads to the list to rerender its items.

So that will work exactly as it should,

or it should work exactly as it should.

So now we have that moveProject method,

down there in the drop handler, we can now use this.

There we can now use the projectState,

call moveProject, and pass in the project ID,

and now the new project status.

And the new project status

depends on the list on which we drop this.

So, I wanna autobind

my drop handler,

so that the this keyword in the drop handler

refers to the surrounding class,

and this surrounding class is a project list

which, if you remember,

will have a type property here,

we're storing it here, we're having a type, property,

and that is active or finished.

So now we just have to translate active or finished

to our enum values.

So here, I pass in this.type,

and I check if it's equal to active,

in which case, we pass in ProjectStatus.Active,

as the new status of the project,

because that is the status of the list

we moved the project to.

Otherwise, we pass in ProjectStatus.Finished,

and let me reformat that to make it easier to read.

With that let's give it a try.

Let's save all, and add a new project here,

and now drag it to finished projects and it switches,

and the same and if I move it back.

If I let go here in active projects, nothing changes.

Now you will see, if you inspect the DOM,

that technically it rerenders, which might not be ideal,

so we could think about coming up with some solution

which checks whether the status actually did change,

and if it didn't, we don't update,

that's something we can do.

But from a UI perspective, it updates just as it should.

Now let's also add a second project

and see if that destroys something,

if everything still works,

and I would say that looks decent,

that looks pretty good to me.

Everything seems to work exactly the way it should.

So dragging and dropping works just fine here

but there is this one improvement I mentioned

back in the project state, in moveProject,

when I called this updateListeners, we can actually check

if we did really change the status.

So here we can check if project,

so if we did find one, and if then project status,

is different from the new status,

and only then we change the status and update the listeners.

If the status is the same we don't do this

and we avoid the unnecessary rerender cycle.

So now with that,

if we saved it and we quickly add a new project,

you will see if I inspect the elements here

and you watch the L-I and check whether this flashes,

which means it would rerender, it does not flash here,

only droppable flashes, the class we just added,

but the L-I does not flash if I drop in the same box,

it only flashes if I move it to a different box.

And it should flash then because then we really did move it.

So now we optimize this a bit,

and now we have working drag-and-drop here,

all built and powered with and by TypeScript.

