I want to start with the namespace feature.

Now to show you how it works,

I will grab these two interfaces here.

The drag and drop interfaces,

cut them from app.ts and add a new file,

dragdropinterfaces.ts for example.

Now we can paste it in there and now to use namespaces,

all we have to do is we have to add the keyword namespace

and then curly braces.

Now we also have to give this namespace a name

and here I'll name it DD Interfaces for a drag and drop,

the name is up to you though.

Now, this year is a TypeScript feature,

not a JavaScript feature.

It is not compiled to Vanilla JavaScript

because there is no direct equivalent for it.

Instead TypeScript will basically compile it to an object

you could say.

To an object where the things you will put

into the namespace then are stored on properties,

but you won't have to worry about that

because all the resolving of access to these properties

and that everything works will be taken care of

by TypeScript.

So now we can move these interfaces into the namespace

and with that we're almost done.

Now we have one problem, however,

these interfaces are now only available in this namespace.

By the way,

you can not just put interfaces into a namespace

you can put anything in there,

classes,

constants,

whatever you want.

Whatever you want can be put in a namespace.

So basically you can wrap a namespace

around any code you have.

But the problem we have is that these features,

these interfaces here

are now only available inside of that namespace.

Now as you see, we have nothing else in there.

Now of course we could bring the code

that depends on them back into this namespace,

but then again we would blow to this

because turns out we have quite long class

that depends on these interfaces.

We have the project list class and the project item class.

They depend on these interfaces,

so there would be a lot we have to add to that namespace.

Therefore, what you can do

is you can add the export keyword in front of an interface

to export a feature from a namespace.

Now what this means is that now these interfaces

are available inside of this namespace,

but also outside of this file.

And we'll see how this works in a second,

but with that we make this interface

or whatever we are exporting.

This is not restricted to interfaces of course

available outside of this file as well

if we then basically import or use that namespace.

And of course again

you cannot just export interfaces in a namespace

but anything.

Now with that, the question just is,

how do we import this namespace

now back into app.ts

and for that, TypeScript has special syntax you can use.

Let's back to the top of app.ts

and now here you add three forward slashes,

important three, not just two

because this is actually not a normal comment

what we're creating now

this will actually be syntax picked up by TypeScript

a special comment, you could say TypeScript understands

if it starts with three slashes.

There you write a self-closing XML tag,

so opening angle bracket,

then forward slash closing angle bracket

and in their

reference path equals

and then here the name of the file you want to import.

In my case here dragdropinterfaces.ts.

Now, this is understood and picked up by TypeScript

because as I mentioned with the three starting slashes,

it's a special syntax TypeScript understands

just as it understands this reference thing.

This is not Vanilla JavaScript

Vanilla JavaScript does not notice

and this is not what it will look like once it is compiled.

Now, what does does achieve though?

This achieves that now this namespace DD Interfaces

is available in app.ts.

However, if you scroll down,

you see my editors still complains

and if we tried to save it

as we all do good compilation errors.

So, it doesn't seem to be available.

The draggable interface doesn't seem to be available here.

Well, there is a special thing about namespaces.

You can use them to split your code

and remember when I said earlier

that what you have in a namespace

can be used from anywhere in that namespace.

Well, it turns out

you can split namespaces across multiple files

by exporting things in a namespace

and then using this special import syntax,

but you then have to put the things

that want to use something from that import namespace

or from that imported file

into the same namespace.

Hence maybe DD Interfaces is not the best name.

Maybe we just named as App.

Now, if we named as app here,

we can go to app.ts

and create a namespace of the same name here,

namespace App.

And now for the moment,

let's put everything here into that namespace

and now you see the error is gone

There are no red dots on the right.

However, if I saved that,

I'll still get errors here.

For example, that finished project list is not used.

Well, that is correct

I am not using that.

I am not needing it either,

so we can simply remove these concepts here.

With that, if we saved this,

now it compiled without errors.

The question just is

what's the result of this compilation?

Do we have one or two files now?

Well, let's have a look at the disc folder

and there you see you've got an App JS file

and then some code here

and a drag and drop interface JS file.

So we've got two files as a result.

Now the dragon drop interface file actually is pretty empty

because you learned

that interfaces are basically not compiled to anything.

There is no JavaScript equivalent for an interface.

It's a pure TypeScript feature.

So we can import it with the TypeScript syntax here

to use it and get all the type improvements we learned

but in production

it doesn't matter if it's in a separate file or not.

So off course, the question is

what if we now put something that does exist in production,

that does exist in JavaScript as well

into a separate file.

For example, does enum and the project class here,

I'll grab both,

create a new file,

project dash model TS

and put my project status enum and project class in there.

Now just as before

we can add a namespace here,

the name has to be App,

so it has to be done namespace

where we then also want to use it

and we have to export these features in there,

so that we can use them in other files

in the same namespace,

but an other files as well.

Now back in app.ts,

we have to import that second file.

So I'll duplicate this import

and all the import project dash model ts.

if I saved that and now is compiled

and we see a project model JavaScript file.

And in there,

we see some code.

The question is does our application now work?

For that, let's reload it

and let's try adding a project here

and you see,

we get an error.

Cannot read property active of undefined.

The reason for that simply is that

our files are compiled standalone.

Namespaces exist in TypeScript world

as I said, there is no JavaScript equivalence for it.

So the problem we have here is that in TypeScript world,

everything is great

because TypeScript is able to find all the things we need.

For example,

when I say project here,

when I referenced the project type here

on the project state class,

this project type,

this project class

is defined in the project model.

Now TypeScript does not complain your incompletion

because we import that model,

but import here really just means

we tell TypeScript where to find that type

once it is compiled to JavaScript,

disconnection is basically destroyed.

So in JavaScript code when is executes

and when we then try to create a new project

by instantiating project,

JavaScript doesn't find this project class

or constructor function.

So we have to make sure we carry over disconnection.

And for that we can go to the TS (mumbles)

and there set this out file option.

We can comment this in

and the idea behind the out file

is that you tell TypeScript

that it should concatenate namespaces.

So these references,

which it has during compilation

into one single JavaScript file

instead of compiling multiple JavaScript files.

So here for out file we can say

we want to have a file in the disc folder,

which we named maybe bundle.js

And if we do that and save that,

we'll actually get an error here.

We'll get an error

that only AMD and system modules

are supported alongside out file.

Now, we don't need to understand everything here

There basically are different ways of loading

or bundling different JavaScript files into one

for historic reasons and how it is all developed

and you can learn more about these different bundled types

in an attached resource if you want to,

you don't need to though.

So basically what we need to do here

is we need to set module

which is already highlighted as an error here,

not to common JS,

but to AMD for example.

If we do that, it compiles without issues

even though it's still complains here,

but it didn't pick up that I changed it

and now what happens is actually

that there is a new bundle JS file in dist.

If I remove all JavaScript files in the disc folder

and I restart my TSC dash we process

so the compiler

you'll see only that bundle JS file is generated.

This file will hold all our code in the compiled

and translated version

and therefore now in index HTML,

we just have to import bundle JS here instead of App JS.

And if we do so and we reload here,

we have a working application again

where we can use drag and drop everything

because now it's all in one file,

but only in the final result.

During development,

we have these namespaces here,

which is one step in the right direction

because it is already as a bit more manageable.

Now let's split this into even more files

before we then have a look at the average splitting option

TS modules.

