So we get started with names bases,

let's continue on that route,

and let's split it into more files.

For that here, the project state management.

We could put that into a separate file as well.

So I'll grab everything

including this creation of the project state instance here,

cut it from the app.ts file and create a new file,

project-state.ts.

Move that in there and just as before,

put it into a namespace.

Namespace app, name is important, it has to be App

because that's where the rest of our code is in.

Put it all in there and now important,

export what you need outside of this file as well,

which in this case is the projectstate class,

we need that in the rest of our application,

and also this constant down there,

we need to export this as well.

You don't need to export the Listener here,

and also not that state, because both things

are only used in this file and therefore,

don't need to be exported.

Now, we have to import our projectstate.ts file,

so in App.ts, time for another import up there.

Project dash state, just like that.

If we save that, it should compile without errors.

Now, I will continue and the validation part here

could go into a separate file as well,

so I'll grab all of this,

create a new file, validation.ts,

add the namespace App here, put my validation logic in there

and export the validatable interface

and all the devalidate function here, of course.

And then, back in App.ts, you know how it is,

we go back here to the top

and add an import to validation.ts.

Now, the decorator also can be moved into a separate file.

Autobind dash decorator.ts, for example.

Again, add the namespace with the name App to it,

put the function in there and export it, of course,

to make it available outside of this file as well

and then here in app.ts, time for another import

where I import autobind dash decorator.ts.

Now we got more things to export,

we got our component and then all these classes.

I wanna have each class in a separate file

so that each file is relatively small and easy to manage.

Now, we're getting into a new problem here, though.

We add more and more files on the same level

and for now, I'm using the dash thing here

to provide some hint or help on what's in the file,

autobind dash decorator shows us that there's probably

a decorator in there.

Here, we probably have interfaces.

Here, a model and so on.

Now, if you only have three or four files,

that is perfectly fine but if you have more files,

you end up with a very hard to understand

folder structure here.

So what I like to do is I want to create subfolders.

I'll add a decorators subfolder,

move my autobind decorator in there, and re-name it

to just autobind, because it's already in

the decorators folder.

Of course there's a decorator in there.

Then, I'll add my models folder,

and actually, here, I'll move both drag and drop interfaces

and project model in there,

simply because I think the drag and drop interfaces

all in the end are just definitions of how draggable

and droppable classes should look like.

Just as the project model is the definition

of how a project class should look like

or how our project object should look like.

So I'll name this drag and drop and this here just project

and then here I'll add a util folder for utility

and add my validation in there

and then a state folder and add project state to that.

Here I will keep the name project-state

just to avoid confusion with this project.ts file here.

Technically, that would not be a problem

but I want to also make it clear here in this course

so that you have an easier time seeing

in which file I'm working.

You could definitely rename this to just project.ts here

if you wanted to.

Now, with that re-factoring and these sub-folders,

of course our imports here are broken,

so we should fix them.

Drag and drop interfaces is found in the models folder

and now is name just drag-drop.ts.

And the project model also is found in the models folder

and is now just named project.ts.

Project state is found in the state folder,

validation is found in the util folder,

and autobind decorator is found in decorators

and is just named autobind.

With that, if we save that, it compiles without errors

and now we have a more manageable

and readable folder structure, I would argue.

With that, let's continue, we're not done.

We have our component here,

now for that, I'll add a components sub-folder

and in there I want to have my base dash component ts file

and then my project item ts file, my project list ts file

and also the project input ts file.

Of course, you can always organize this differently,

but I think this keeps related files together.

So we can grab this abstract component base class here,

cut it from app ts and move it into base component.

Like this, and of course, also just as before,

add it into a namespace with the name App.

And then move it into this namespace.

Of course, I'll adjust this before we need to export it

so that we can use it in another file.

That other file, however, will not be app.ts

because the files or the classes where I used the component

will also be moved.

The project item class here, for example,

I'll grab that and move it into project item.ts,

to be precise, in there I'll also add a namespace app

and move it into the namespace app in there

and then export this class as well.

Now, important, this relies on component,

and the other, if I now saved this, we would get an error

that component isn't found in the end

so here we again, need to add this import

where we have reference path equals

and then here it's base-component.ts.

This is always a relative import here,

so since this is in the same folder,

we don't have to say components slash here,

because we don't need to go into the components folder first

this file, the project item file,

is already in the components folder

so relative from this file

base component is imported just by using its name here.

So now the project item is here.

Now, of course, in app.ts, we also got the project list.

Let's grab that, move it to the project list ts file here

and there into a namespace App, and then also here

to project input

let's grab this, cut it from here, from the namespace app

in the app.ts file,

and move it into the project input ts file

and there into a app namespace.

Now, important just as before, export this class here,

project item and also project list, of course,

all needs to be exported,

with that we get a bunch of errors

because of course, still there are missing imports.

In app.ts, we should import all these components now,

so here we should import project-input.ts,

project-list.ts, and then save this.

Now, of course, it still crashes because we got more things

that are missing,

in project-input we are using component

just as we are in project list,

so just as we did it in project item,

we need to add that import of base component

in the project input ts file

and also in the project list ts file.

And with that, it compiles without errors

and let's see if it also works,

if we reload here and I add this,

is draggable and droppable,

and that all seems to work just as it should,

and now we split this across multiple files.

We still get one file in the end,

but when we work on our code,

it's now much more manageable.

Because we have smaller focused files

where we can quickly find what we're looking for

and where we don't have to scroll through a huge file

to find the place we wanna work on next.

