Name spaces are pretty nice,
but they're not necessarily perfect.
We saw one problem in the last lecture
where I manually added all the pendencies to each file.
When I remove, drag and drop from project list,
yes for example, it still compiles
without errors.
This is not ideal.
Now, it might or might not work,
depending on whether some other file imports
the drag-drop model which I,
in the end, need here.
Which here would be the case.
So technically, even after removing this,
it works here.
But this is not great, this is pretty dangerous.
If we rely on the fact that some file
will handle it for us, well if we then delete
or change that file which saved our ass,
we suddenly change something totally unrelated
and our app stops working.
We definitely don't want that.
So it would be nice if we had imports and exports
that clearly state what we import from which file.
And if we need something here,
Drag Target for example,
and we're not importing it explicitly,
we get an error.
That is basically what we want.
And we get this behavior with ES6 modules.
Now, ES6 modules also exist
outside of the type of the world,
modern browsers support them natively,
where the browser will then basically download
all the pendencies of a file when it executes.
But types could also imports them and then
gets the initial type support when we use them.
Now how do ES6 modules work?
Let's again start with drag and drop.
Let's remove that name space thing
which is a pure types confeature.
Let's keep the export key word though.
The export key word is not just the
there to work with name spaces,
it's actually a default Java script syntax
which is all as important by typ script.
It means that you export this interphase
and this one here as well
from this file and you can then import it
into another file.
In our case here we need it in the project item
and project list files.
Now let's start with the project item.
To import something from ES module
so with that ES module synthax,
you specify import at the top of the file
or near the top of the file
before you start writing any actual code.
Import from and then you point at that file
with a relative path from the file on in which
you are importing.
So in this case we need to go up I level
with two dots and a slash.
So that we are in the source folder,
and then we need to go here to the modules folder
and import drag and drop.
Now important, add dot JS here,
because you need to import as if this already
were compiled, because this will be taken over
into vanilla Java script and then it should
look for Java script there
so for Java script files so dot JS needs
to be added.
Now you import something from there
and for than you add curly braces
between which you specify what you want to import
from that file.
There I already get auto completion
I wanna import draggable.
Now draggable is available here and types
sees that it's not available and is happy.
Now we need to convert everything so that it can
show at run time.
So lets get rid of the name space here as well.
Now have to close the curly brace as well.
And now for example here now we get what we want,
we get errors, we get component error,
project, this is all missing.
So let's export and import all these things.
For example in base component
get rid of the name space,
keep the export key word as you learned.
Get rid of the closing curly brace
and reformat and project import.
We can always get rid of the name space.
And all of the references here, you can actually
delete all reference imports you have anywhere.
Get rid of all the name space curly braces.
Project list, get rid of all the name space
and the references, get rid of the closing
curly brace down there.
And decorators, get rid of the name space
and the closing curly brace
and drag and drop, we already got rid of it.
Project, get rid of the name space and the
closing curly brace.
Project stayed unsurprisingly get rid of the
name space and the closing.
Curly brace here we actually were relying on
project being imported by some other file,
I didn't have references to it here.
So that was that dangerous behavior
I was talking about.
This could have failed if we wouldn't import
or if we wouldn't reference our project part
in the name space in some other file.
So that definitively was not ideal.
But with that let's continue our refactoring.
In validation here get rid of the name space here
and all of the closing curly brace
here at the bottom.
And last but not least an app TS,
get rid of these imports and of the name space.
So now we got errors everywhere
but now we can start over.
Now let's maybe start over in the base component.
This is looking good, it's not complaining
seems to have everything it wants.
Project import, well, it is complaining.
For example there we need to component.
So let's add a import at the top and lets import
component from dot slash base component.
This is how you import relatively
if something is in the same folder.
Dot slash at the beginning, then the file name
and then all is important dot JS.
Don't forget the dot JS at the end.
Now we also need the validatable interphase
here and the validate method, auto mind
and project state.
So let's import all these things
let's import from dot slash, or no
go up one level then util then validation
dot JS, let's import from That File,
validatable and the validate function
and import auto bind from,
going up one level decorators autobind JS.
And last but not least the project state
let's import from going up one level
state project state JS .
From there we can import the project state
constant that we export there.
Now these are all the imports we need here
to make this file work.
So let's move on to project item now.
In there we need autobind we need component
we need the project model.
So let's add all these things.
Let's for example import the project model from
dot dot slash models project JS.
Let's also add component
which lives in the same folder .
So import dot slash base component JS
and auto bind, let's import auto bind
from dot dot slash decorators auto bind JS.
And now this file here also has everything it needs.
Now let's move on to project list.
Here in project list we also need the component
as on so on, so we'll actually copy that over here
from project item add it to project list TS,
but we don't need draggoble here but to
drag target instead so let's import that.
And in addition we need the project state
the project status.
Yeah, these are the things we need.
And also the project item class.
So from the project model file we can also
import project status.
You can import multiple exported things from
one of the same file by simply
separating them with a comma between
these curly braces just as you are seeing it here.
We also import the project state constant
from the state folder,
project state JS and also import
last but not least, here at the very bottom
we need it, the project item class.
So import project item from dot slash
project item dot JS.
So let's move on.
Autobind is fine, project status complaining
there we need the project model.
So at the top let's import
project from going up one level
models project dot JS.
We also are using project status in here so let's
import that from that same file'
And with that, last but not least
we get the app TS file
there we need to import project input.
from dot slash components project input.
JS and the project list
from project list JS'
If we now saved this it should compile
without errors and now we are using ES6 modules
to organize our imports and exports.
If we have a look at the browser though
we got an error.
Now the reason for that is if we check the dist
folder we got our bundle JS file right.
Now we need to switch TS config again.
For one here, we shouldn't use AMD now
but instead ES twenty fifteen.
Than is basically the code word for ES6 which was
the agma script version that
introduced ES modules.
So we're basically telling type script
don't transform our imports to anything,
keep them as they are.
Modern browsers will understand it.
So that's important, also make sure you have a
target of ES6 or higher here'
You now also should comment out the out file again,
because that's not supported with ES modules.
And with that what you get in the dist folder
is basically a replication of your source folder
but with Java script files.
So now we also need to go back to the index
HDML file and import app JS again,
because we got an app JS file
in the dist folder now.
And again this app JS file will have you're
import statements in there, because, as I mentioned,
this is supported by Java script, by modern
Java script engines and by modern browsers.
And the browser will resolve
these imports for you therefore.
So if we now reload this, huh
we still get an error.
Cannot use import statement outside a module.
Well modern browsers support this sintex
but you have to tell them that you wanna use it.
And you do tell them by removing the (mumbles) here
and instead on the script tag, where you
import a file which has these imports statements.
You use type equals module.
If you now safe this, you see
this works and now if we add something here
we get the working application again.
Now if you inspect the network tab by the way
you will see that if you reload, there are
a bunch of network requests going on,
if I zoom out a bit we can see it better.
All our Java script files are requested here.
They are requested automatically by the browser
when it encounters our import.
So it starts with app JS, then it sees the
import to project input JS.
Here and hence of course the next request goes
to project input.
It also does the same for project list.
Now in project input for example it would
see a input from base component JS
which is why it also imports
prob base component JS.
So that's done by the browser here
we take advantage of it and now we have another
way of splitting our files but with the
additional advantage that we clearly state
what we need from each file and
if we omit an import, type-script yells at us,
which it didn't do with the previous approach,
which is way this approach is actually my
recommendation and why it is the defacto standard
way of importing and exporting.
Now, if you've worked with type script before
in other projects, let's say in a angular project,
you might also be used to not having to specify
a file extension here
Well, we'll also be able
to omit that once we add
web pack and a bill tool.
As long as we don't have that and we rely on the
browser to import our files you need
to add that extra extension.
