So we're using ES modules.
Turns out there are some variations
of that export and import syntax
which you should be aware of.
For example, you can bundle imports.
Lets say here in project input,
where I'm importing two things
from the validation file here.
You might want to group that all into one object
where you then can call dot validatable and dot validate,
so that you don't have to call validate like this.
Maybe you want to call it like this,
but if you had let's say a function of the same name
and year or anything like that
and you want to avoid a name clash
or you want to make it clear
that this belongs to some kind of package,
you could group that.
To group imports you don't import them like this
with the curly braces, but instead you use a star here
which means import everything from that file,
as and then any alias of your choice,
for example, validation.
Now you have to go to the places
where you use something from that file
and use it like an object validation.validatable.
So everything which is exported in that file
which you now group under this name here
is accessed through the dot notation.
So validation.validatable all the way
and then also down there where we have the validate function
it's of course validation.validate, validation.validate,
and validation.validate.
And with that you will see, well validation works.
So grouping is one thing you can do.
That alias thing here is also
something you can do in general.
You're not liking autobind like this,
you want to have a capital character at the beginning?
Well, you can simply assign alias with the as key word here.
Inside of the curly braces you can use it as well.
Then you rename this import and only this import.
You don't rename it in the original file of course.
It's only imported under a different name in this file here.
So now instead of using autobind with a lower case a
here we now have to use our alias name with the uppercase A.
So that can be another nice feature to avoid name clashes
if you had another thing named autobind
with the lower case a in the same file, for example.
You can also work with default exports.
If you have a file which only exports one thing,
let's say base-component.
Actually we have a lot of files that only export one thing.
But let's say here in this file
we don't want to export it like this,
a so-called named export,
because we imported by name here in the curly braces.
We need to use the exact name we used here.
If you don't want to do that,
you simply add another keyword, default.
And this tells JavaScript that this is the main,
well, the default export of this file.
You could still have other named exports here
that would be allowed.
Whoops, for example a constant here
that would be allowed.
You can have named and default exports mixed
in the same file,
but if you use a default export,
you can only have one default export per file.
So here I have my default export and now in the files
where I imported, you don't import it by name.
You can only import named exports by name.
For example, that something constant added.
Instead you import your default
simply by choosing any name of your choice now,
which doesn't have to match the name you used
in the exported file.
So you don't have to use component now.
You could use just Cmp for example here now.
And import it like this, without curly braces.
There also is no star, so I'm not importing everything.
I'm just importing the default.
Therefore this is only available if the file
you're importing from has a default export.
Because this tells JavaScript,
hey, I wanna use the default export of that file.
Then here I can name this Cmp, of course.
Or, I have to use Cmp, of course now.
Component is not allowed anymore
because I'm not importing it by that name.
Of course, we now also need to tweak this in project-item
and project-list.
We use the default export.
I will stick to component here,
but you don't have to, as I just showed.
You could use any name you want here,
but for simplicity, I will use component here.
Default exports can be nice if you only have
one thing per file.
I personally prefer named exports though,
because you get auto-completion,
you enforce a clear naming pattern,
if another developer imports your class
or your exported thing, he has to use your name,
which typically is good
because that allows you to enforce
certain naming conventions across a team or organization.
And therefore, I personally like named exports,
but of course you should be aware
of the default export as well,
which you can use like that.
