And that's it for modules.

Now using modules is a super useful, and important feature

because it allows you to write more maintainable,

and manageable code. Having it all in one file is a mess

and really not an option

for anything but really tiny projects.

Using ever namespaces or ES modules

is there for a way better alternative.

Since it makes sure, that every file on its own

is relatively small, and therefore stays manageable.

And still, you end up with that entire,

big application you want to have in the end.

Now, when it comes to these two approaches,

Namespaces and ES modules, the clear recommendation is

ES modules, because you get that extra type safety,

and you ensure that every file,

has to clearly specify what it wants.

With namespaces, it was enough

if one file imported something,

that another file also needs.

The downs of this, if that one file,

which imported the thing is removed

that other file also breaks, without you noticing.

At least, without you noticing before you run the code.

So, therefore, use ES modules.

Use namespaces in smaller projects,

or if for some reason you can't use ES modules,

And you can't use another bundler,

which would translate such modules. To non module code,

which all the works and all the browsers.

But other than that use really use modules, ES modules.

And what I just said is important.

These modules here, right now the way we use them,

only work in modern browsers.

Because we rely on the browser,

to basically import all these files. Right?

Now, of course we want to build applications

with typescript, that also run in all the browsers.

Internet Explorer 9, for example.

There this would not be supported.

This Syntax, is not supported there.

So, the app would not run there.

We might also be using some other features

that are not supported there, but mainly this here

is not supported in all browsers.

So, to make that work in all browsers,

we can use a bundling tool. We can use Webpack for example.

To bundle that together into one JavaScript file.

So, that during development we have this multi file,

strong typing experience, but when we ship our code

we actually have one file only.

And now were advantage of shipping one file

instead of all these files we have here,

is that we also insure that the browser

doesn't have to download that many files.

Because every file that has to be downloaded,

is an extra roundtrip. In the network tab of the dev tools,

you can actually see that.

The area you see this waterfall chart,

and you see this little white box

at the beginning of ever block.

This is basically the setup time

it takes to setup the HDP request.

So, even though the files we are downloading are very small

as you can tell, this still takes some time

because all the redundant extra setup,

for every HDP request.

So doing less requests is a good idea anyways,

regardless of browser support.

So, for these two reasons, browser support and less requests

we'll have a look at bundling, with Webpack,

in the next course section.

