For this section here,

I created a brand new, very, very basic demo project,

which you'll find attached.

It's still not a super complex project, of course.

It only consists of three source files, three code files,

but it is a project that does not just consist of .ts files.

Instead, I also got HTML and CSS files

in this demo project here.

And that, of course, is an important difference

compared to most of the projects I showed you thus far

in the course,

because there we basically always build NodeJS projects.

So, applications that we intended to run with NodeJS,

and we only had .ts files there,

which were compiled to .js in the end.

Now here, I'm building a frontend project,

a client side project, which should run in the browser.

And therefore, I don't just have my TypeScript files,

but I also have HTML and CSS files.

And of course, you could also be building

some NodeJS projects that don't just consist

of TypeScript files, just to be clear about that.

Well, and here in this demo,

in this example here, I then have a problem.

I don't just have TypeScript files here,

but I'm trying to build this project

with help of this build script here

with help of the TSC command.

So, that same TSC command,

which we executed in the terminal before,

here I am trying to execute it

as part of a build script with help of npm.

So, I'm trying to use the TypeScript compiler

to build this project, and that's why I also have

the tsconfig file here, which has these settings

where I specifically make it clear

that my code lives in the source directory,

and that I wanna produce a dist directory.

That could be a setup you have in such a project.

Now, as a result, we can run npm run build

to invoke that build script,

which I created in the package.json file.

So, to invoke this script here.

But if I do that, everything works and I get a dist folder.

But the dist folder only contains the app.js file,

which contains the compiled code.

And here specifically,

I didn't really use a lot of TypeScript code,

but there's a little bit of it, the exclamation mark.

And I got the compiled code here,

but I'm missing the HTML and CSS files here.

And therefore, if I were to deploy

the content of the dist folder,

I would not end up with a website that can be visited

because I only have the JavaScript file in here.

And that's one fundamental problem you might face

when trying to build projects

with just the TypeScript compiler

because it is in its core just a TypeScript compiler.

It's there to compile TypeScript code,

not to build entire web projects.

So, not to copy, leave alone,

maybe optimize or build other kinds of files.

And that's a problem we're facing here,

and for which we need a solution.

