So what could be a potential solution
to our problem here?
Well, we could try to write some build script,
build script written in JavaScript or a shell script,
anything like that, and we could try to invoke that here
in our build script, in the package.json file,
in addition to compiling the TypeScript code.
And in that build script,
we could copy all non-TypeScript files
from the source folder to the dist folder.
We could do something like that,
and that could be a perfectly fine approach if you like it,
especially maybe if it's a relatively simple project,
but it might also not be the best possible approach.
Instead, we have tools like Webpack
that aim to help us with building and managing projects,
web projects that consist of all kinds of different files.
And Webpack is a very popular solution,
because it is a tool that can handle all kinds of file types
and bundle them together and optimize them, transform them,
and then spit out a folder
that contains all those changed and transformed
and build files.
And Webpack is still very popular today,
and it especially has been super popular in the past.
Now, working with Webpack,
that would be a topic on its own.
You could create an entire course about Webpack,
about using it, configuring it, and so on.
But thankfully, there definitely already exists
courses for that.
But even more importantly than that,
you typically don't need to do that,
because you'll often work with project setups
where such a Webpack configuration
has already been created for you.
You might have a dedicated team member
if you're working in a bigger company
and on more complex projects that handles that.
And as a TypeScript Developer, you definitely don't need
to know how to configure Webpack.
In addition, Webpack, as I mentioned,
still is super popular and gets used a lot,
but it's not the most modern
or trending tool to be used
for managing projects and for compiling files.
Instead, there are alternatives like esbuild,
which have become extremely popular over the past years,
mainly because of their performance.
I mean, here on their official page,
you can see which numbers they show
for building and transforming a project
that consists of multiple files,
and you see that they claim that they're super fast,
and indeed, esbuild is extremely fast.
And esbuild would be a popular alternative to Webpack,
which you can also use to build and optimize and compile
and change and copy all kinds of files.
So you could use esbuild or Webpack
and configure them in your project
to manage how all the files
in the source folder are handled.
And to manage that, the HTML file gets copied
to the dist folder, the CSS file gets copied too,
and maybe also gets transformed to support older browsers
or something like that,
and that the TypeScript file gets compiled.
Because both esbuild and Webpack
also support TypeScript compilation.
You can learn about that in the official documentation,
but again, you typically don't need to become
a Webpack or esbuild expert,
because typically, you'll work with projects
where these tools have already been set up for you.
And I'll show you one extremely valuable and popular tool
for creating such projects in the next lecture.
