Now to create a new Vite project,
you can run disc command, which requires NPM
to be installed on your machine,
which you should already have installed anyways.
So you should go to your terminal
or command prompt on your machine,
navigate into the folder where you want to create
your new TypeScript-based web project,
and then run npm create vite@latest.
That's the command you see here
in the official documentation.
When you run this command,
you'll have to confirm this most likely,
and then you'll be asked how you want to name your project.
And here I'll name it vite-demo-ts.
But of course the name is entirely up to you.
Thereafter, you have to choose which preset you want to use,
and that's essentially that list I showed you here.
So these kind of presets
that you can create easily with help of Vite.
So in my case, I want to use a vanilla JavaScript project,
so a frontend web project that uses just JavaScript,
no extra framework or library like React.
But I want to write TypeScript code during development.
And then of course I want to have that code compiled
to JavaScript code for production.
So I'll choose TypeScript here.
With that, I get a new folder created,
in my case named vite-demo-ts,
since that's the name I chose.
And we can navigate into this folder,
then install a bunch of the dependencies
that are needed to build and run this project
and then run a development server,
which allows us to easily preview the website
we're working on and which will update
whenever we make changes to our code,
which is super convenient.
Now, I will not run these commands here, however,
instead I opened that project here
with VS Code, my code editor.
So that's the folder that was created by Vite.
And as you can tell, it doesn't look that different
from the folder I had before.
I have a package.json file, a tsconfig.json file,
a gitignore file, then an HTML file here,
right on the root level of my project, that's new.
But then I have a source folder
with a bunch of TypeScript files and also a CSS file,
an SVG icon
and this .d.ts file, to which I'll get back.
I also have a public folder which stores another image.
That just happens to be the folder structure Vite gives you,
the folder structure Vite forces on you
if you want to call it like this.
But then in the package.json file,
you can see that there are two dependencies,
development dependencies, that are specified.
One of them is TypeScript and one of them is Vite.
So this build tool in the end,
which under the hood will invoke ESBuild
or something similar to build these files
and do a bunch of other things as well.
And I'll get back to why TypeScript
is specified here in a second.
But then we also got these scripts here
which we can execute with help of NPM.
For example, a build script which will make sure
that this project gets built.
And you see it does actually
invoke the TypeScript compiler here,
but it then also invokes another command
based on the Vite tool,
which will essentially make sure
that all the files get handled
and get prepared for deployment.
If we take a look at the ts.config.json file,
we also see that here we got a bunch of settings
and typically you can keep those the way you are
unless you know what you're doing.
You could, for example, change the target
if you wanted to target a more modern version of JavaScript.
But other than that, these are the settings Vite needs
to effectively compile
and then use the compiled TypeScript code.
So with all that, what you have to do
to build this project is first of all, run NPM install.
This will ensure that all the dependencies
mentioned here in the package.json file
get actually downloaded
and stored in this folder,
in the node modules folder,
so that these third party packages,
TypeScript and Vite are available.
And Vite is needed here
to make this Vite build command work, for example,
they offer after running NPM install,
you could start that development server I mentioned
with NPM run dev.
And that would then open up a website
which you could visit in your browser
and start a process which watches your code files
to update that website whenever you make changes.
But here I'll instead run that build script.
So this script here to build this project for production
to get a deployable folder.
And if I do that, you'll see
that a dist folder gets created
just as it was the case in my custom project.
But this dist folder now does not just contain
the compiled TypeScript files.
Instead it has a totally different structure
than the source folder.
It, for example, contains the index HTML file,
which is not even part of the source folder,
but which is part of the root folder.
Nonetheless, this file here, in the end
gets copied into the dist folder by Vite
so that we can take the contents of the dist folder,
put them onto a server
and have our running website there.
And it's then in the assets folder
where we got this weirdly named JavaScript file,
which in the end contains the compiled TypeScript code.
You might say that there is some HTML code in there,
but in the, that's just some markup
that is defined here
as a string in the TypeScript files as well.
So in the end, this is JavaScript code here,
which we got here just already optimized for production.
So pretty unreadable,
but therefore also as small as possible.
And we got this weird name to help with caching
so that browsers and potentially CDNs
could cache this file.
And if you build and deploy a new version of your project,
the file would have a different name.
This part here would be different
and therefore the old cache files would be invalidated.
That's why we have this weird file.
We can also see the CSS file here, by the way,
which has a similar name
and contains the optimized CSS code.
And that is what Vite does for us here
and why you would typically use a tool like Vite
because it helps with building projects
that you can then easily build for production
and which you can then also deploy,
even if they don't just consist of just TypeScript files.
Because as you saw before, the TypeScript compiler,
which you invoke with tsc,
is not really a suitable tool
if you want to do more than just compile TypeScript code.
