So which disadvantage do we have?
This is the project we worked on,
split up into multiple files
using these ES6 module imports here.
Now, lets actutally built this project
and for that, as we did before,
we can run npm-start to bring up the lite-server.
And of course, very important in a new tab,
all the run tsc-dash
to start up TypeScript compilation in watch mode.
This gives us our project and if we now open the Network tab
in the browser developer tools and we reload this file,
we will see the disadvantage we have here
or the problem we have with this setup.
We see a bunch of HTTP requests.
Now you can ignore the last ones here
these are coming from our development server.
But all these our requests here to app.js,
project-input.js, project-list.js, base-component.js
and on that's the problem.
You'll notice that all these files are not that large,
they're relatively small.
So that of course is fine
but we have a lot of HTTP requests here.
Now what's the problem with that?
The problem with that can be seen if we have a look
at that waterfall here on the right.
Every HTTP request that needs to be made
of course takes a little time.
It takes time to download the files
but since they're not that big, that's not a issue.
But every HTTP request has like a base overhead,
a base duration it always takes.
This little box you see in front of these graphs here.
That's near the time it requires the browser
to set up that request and send it.
So whilst the actual downloading of the file
might be relatively fast, setting up the request,
doing the work on the server, which serves the file and on
that all takes some time.
And now here we have a very fast setup
because it's all happening on our machine.
We got a local development server ofterall.
If you deploy that to the web, having that many requests
can really introduce a lot of latency
and slow down your project just because
of the sheer amount of HTTP requests made.
So if we can find a solution to reduce
that amount of HTTP requests, that would be amazing.
And that's where webpack comes into play.
You can go to webpack.js.org, to learn more about it.
In the end webpack is a tool
that will help us bundle our files together.
And I can really recommend their extensive
and comprehensive documentation you find on their page.
If you wanna learn all about webpack.
In this course, we'll use some selected features
that help us with TypeScript.
So what exactly is webpack?
It's a bundling, and you could say build orchestration tool.
It's a tool that helps us reduce the amount
of HTTP requests by bundling code together.
So that we write code split up across multiple files
but webpack then takes all these files
and bundles them together.
And in addition webpack is capable of doing more.
It will also optimize our code and it also allows us
to add more build steps, more build tools, for example,
to help us with CSS files and so on.
That's not what we'll have a look at in this module though,
because I wanna focus on webpack and TypeScript.
So let's first of all have a look at our normal setup
where we don't use webpack.
There we have multiple TypeScript files
but if we then use these imports,
we get multiple HTTP requests,
which is not that great for the reasons I mentioned.
In addition, a topic I haven't had a look at before
is we also very likely have unoptimized code,
which means it's not as small as possible.
We can certainly optimize code more
by shortening function names and so on.
And of course, we want a tool that does this automatically,
so that we don't have too manually work
with unreadable code.
We wanna write perfectly readable code as a developer.
But it would be great if we had a tool
that then shortens this code and really makes it
as small as possible, uses as short as possible variable
and function names, so that we ship
as little code as possible.
Because less code means that users can download it faster,
which means our application can start up faster
on our machines.
And in addition, our current setup,
we have this extra development server, lite-server
which is a extra package installed,
which we have to spin up.
It wouldn't be a little bonus, a nice bonus
if we had one command and that would do everything,
build our project, but also spin up such a server,
which automatically reloads our website
whenever we change a file in our project.
Well, and that's where webpack can help us.
It bundles our code so that we have less imports
instead we have some, well code bundles that we ship,
it helps us optimize our code, minify it as it's called,
so that we ship less code
and our users have less code to download.
And we can also easily add more build steps
if you want to, we can add such a development server
but we can also do many other things if we realy want to
and the official webpack docs are the place to go
if you wanna learn all about it.
With that, let's see an example setup in our project
and let's learn how we could use webpack there.
