So back in our project, if you want to use webpack there,

I will first of all quit my compilation and that current

development server, and then stat,

make sure we can use webpack there.

Now since this is already a file of the package dot json

file, we can use NPM to install more dependencies

into this project.

So simply, more third party libraries

we need in this project.

And here I don't mean third party libraries which provide

a certain functionalities using our code,

but instead third party libraries that help us

set up a project workflow and configuration

that makes development very efficient for us.

We do this with NPM installed, dash dash safe dash dev

to indicate that it's a development only dependency,

and then webpack webpack dash CLI,

webpack dash dev dash server typescript and ts loader.

So that's a bunch of packages and I will say

what they do in a second.

So let's first of all hit enter and make sure

these are all now all getting installed

into our project here, and thereafter we'll have a look

at each package and see why we installed it,

so let's wait for this to finish.

So it did finish installing for me here,

and now with that, let's analyze what we installed.

In package dot json, the new dev dependencies section,

or it already existed, but now we have a lot

of new packages there I should say,

these packages were added.

Now what do all these packages do?

Let's start with webpack.

Webpack is the tool I just talked about,

it's the heart of this entire setup

we're now going to create.

It is a tool that allows us to

plug in certain functionalities to bundle our code

and also to transform our code.

And that transform our code part is important,

we're having a typescript project here right?

Now of course we could certainly use webpack

to then bundle together all the JavaScript output,

but it would be even nicer if webpack would do both.

Transform our typescript code to JavaScript,

and then actually emit a bundled Javascript file,

and webpack is able to do that thankfully.

We need the webpack CLI to run webpack commands

in our project, and the webpack dev server

to have that built in development server,

which starts webpack under the hood,

which watches our files for changes,

automatically triggers webpack to recompile

when something changes, and which auto serves our page.

And then we got typescript and typescript loader,

the ts loader here.

Now we already installed typescript globally on our machine,

which is why we are able to run tsc dash w.

Now it is a good practice to auto install a copy of

typescript per project, so that for this project,

you got a specific typescript version.

The advantages that if you ever change your

global typescript version, you don't break your project

version, your project setup if there we're breaking

changes in typescript itself,

so we can lock in a specific version of typescript

for a project, that's why we installed it separately here.

And the ts loader now is a package which will

work together with webpack.

The ts loader is a package that tells webpack

how to convert typescript code to Javascript,

so that webpack is able to do both, compile our code,

with the help of typescript loader,

which in turn of course uses the typescript compiler

under the hood, and then webpack also is able to bundle

our emitted javascript files into a bundled js file

into one bundled code file.

Well, and with that, let's simply get started

and let's set up a webpack project so that we can use

webpack for all these nice things.

