So to tell Webpack what to do

with TypeScript files, we need to add a new entry

to the configuration object here.

And that's the module property.

Module also takes a JavaScript object

to then configure it.

A module in the end is just a file,

so here we tell Webpack how to work with the files it finds,

like with the app.ts file, and then also

once it understands that file, how to deal

with all the imports in the file.

So how should Webpack deal with these files?

Well, we tell Webpack by adding a rules array here,

because you can set up multiple rules

that should be applied to all the files.

Here we only need one, but in more complex projects,

where you also want to use Webpack to handle CSS files,

or images, or anything like that,

you can add more rules for different types of files.

And as mentioned before, the official docs

are a great place to learn more about loaders,

which you in the end use to teach Webpack

more about different files, and to learn more

about Webpack in general.

So here, we will add such a loader actually.

A loader is simply a package that tells Webpack

how to deal with certain files,

and of course here, we got the ts loader,

which helps us tell Webpack

how to deal with TypeScript files.

So we add a rule which is just a JavaScript object,

where we first of all add a test property.

This describes a test Webpack will perform

on any file it finds to find out whether this rule here

applies to that file or not.

And the test here is a regular expression.

And there I wanna tell Webpack that any file

which ends with .ts should be used

or should be handled by this rule.

A regular expression that checks for the file extension

can use a backslash here, and then .ts,

and then a dollar sign.

This is our regular expression which then tells Webpack

that you wanna check for files that end with .ts.

Then, you also have to specify what Webpack should do

with those files, and you do that with the use keyword here.

And there, you specify the loader Webpack should use,

in my case, ts-loader.

So we tell Webpack that any TypeScript file it finds

should be handled by the TypeScript loader

which then in turn knows what to do with such a file.

The ts-loader will automatically

take the tsconfig.json file into account

so we don't need to specify any extra configuration here.

Just one configuration that never hurts,

exclude node modules as a regular expression

so that Webpack also doesn't try to look into node modules.

With that we need to add one extra configuration here

after the module configuration, and that's the resolve key.

There we tell Webpack which file extensions it adds

to the imports it finds.

I said Webpack would add extensions on its own,

and by default, it will look for .js files.

Now here we want Webpack to look for .ts files,

and then for here in resolve, we can add

a extensions property, set as equal to an array,

and tell Webpack that it should look for .ts files

as well as .js files.

So now Webpack will basically look for such files

and then bundle all files that have these extensions,

which you are importing together.

And that's our setup almost finished for the moment,

our configuration file almost finished

for the moment at least.

With that we just should go to tsconfig as well,

and there make sure that you set sourceMap to true.

This will help us debug our code,

and Webpack supports this as well.

There we now just also have to add an entry,

maybe here below output,

and that's a devtool key.

And there, the value should be inline-source-map

as a string.

This then tells Webpack that there will be

generated source maps already,

which it should extract and basically wire up correctly

to the bundle it generates, so that whilst we get

such a bundle, we still have a great development experience.

Now with that we can use Webpack, and the question is

how do we use it?

A simple way of using it is to go to the package.json file,

and there let's add a script.

For example, build.

You can give it any name you want

here in the scripts section.

And there, simply run Webpack,

so just type webpack like this.

Let's now also go to the dist folder,

and in the end remove everything that's in there,

and with that save, now run npm run build

and let's see whether that works.

And it fails...

Yeah, I simply got a typo,

that should not be devtools, but devtool here.

So change this to devtool in the configuration file

and now let's repeat npm run build.

And, with that you can ignore the warning you get here.

You will see that in the dist file,

you have a bundled js file.

And what you see in there also already

is quite unreadable code,

because we have this minification in action here actually.

So this actually already is this optimized code as well.

Now before we see how we can also work

with different configurations here,

let's actually go to the index.html file,

and adjust our imports here

and point bundle.js,

and for the moment, since we're not using

Webpack Dev Server yet, let's run npm start

to bring up that index.html file again.

And if you now reload this page,

you see this works!

If we enter something here,

our project works the way it should,

and it imports the bundled js file here,

so only one file instead of all these individual files.

And that already is an enhancement.

Here we already have the bundled code

which avoids all these unnecessary htp requests.

And if you go to the sources tab by the way,

and you wanna debug your code,

you'll find this Webpack folder,

and in there a source folder,

and there you can go to your TypeScript files.

And for example, here, on project-input,

you can also set a break point here

on gatherUserInput, and if you now press the button,

it pauses there,

and you can debug your code.

And that's the source maps coming in,

which really help us developing

and which make our life as a developer easier.

We got this optimized code, but thanks to the source maps

we can debug our original TypeScript code here.

So we already have a pretty amazing setup,

which gives us a lot of optimizations already,

now let's finish this and make sure

we actually have the Webpack Dev Server included,

and we then actually have two workflows,

one for production, and one for development.

