At the moment I'm not using the webpack-dev server.
Now using it is very straight forward, though.
We just have to the package.json file
and now there instead of "lite-server"
let's use "webpack-dev-server", like this.
And now let's start npm start again.
Now what you'll see is
that this now spins up a server running
on local host 8080,
and it spins up the webpack build work flow.
So now if you visit local host 8080
we see our project there.
The interesting thing now is
if we change something in code,
for example, if you adjust ERA console log here,
And it is saved and then you watch the bottom here,
you see it recompiles.
However, if you reload you don't see the log here
And also in the sources tab,
in the webpack source tab,
if you go to app.ts, you don't see the log here.
So it actually did not load the correct code.
This becomes clearer if I delete this bundle.js file here.
If I now restart this npm start process,
you will see it still works, and by the way,
don't wonder that the dist folder stays empty now,
in the webpack-dev server mode
the bundle is generated in memory only,
so it is there and it is loaded by the dev server,
but it's not actually written to the dist.
But you'll see that if you reload,
this page now also crashes.
Now, I said the file would be there,
but it doesn't seem like it's there, right?
Now it's missing on the dist as I said,
and of course we are importing from dist/bundle.js
and index.html, but indeed you can believe me
it is generated in memory.
The problem just is
things are not wired up correctly at the moment.
To tweak this we have to go to the webpack.config.js file
and there, in output, actually add a publicPath key
and set this to "dist."
If you now save this and restart,
now you see it reloads
and now you see "Hi" here.
In the sources tab you now also see
that correct output there.
If you go to the dot folder,
source app.ts you see the console log statement.
And if I now go to app.ts and delete that,
it rebuilds and now the console log statement is gone there.
This is just an additional configuration
that is needed for the webpack-dev server
to really understand where the output is written to
and where it is relative to the index.html file.
Because by default the webpack-dev server
serves an index.html file,
it finds in the same folder as you run this script here.
Which is correct, but then it doesn't make the connection
to the dist folder correctly,
which is why we have to inform webpack-dev server
with publicPath where to find our assests,
so our bundle.js file in this case.
Now if we quit the development server
there is one other setting
I wanna apply here in development mode.
And I'll do this right at the top of the exported object.
I'll set mode to "development."
This will in the end tell webpack
that here we're building for development
and that it will do fewer optimizations
to improve our development experience,
make debugging even easier,
and give us more meaningful error messages, for example.
So in development we also
definitely wanna add this key here.
And with that and the webpack-dev server configured,
we now get the finished development work flow.
Now for production,
we'll need to adjust this work flow a bit
because there we want a different output.
