We prepared our development workflow

for Webpack here, configuring it

for the Webpack dev server, setting the mode

to development, and setting up source maps

to improve our debugging experience,

to give us better error messages and so on.

Now for production, so when we want to prepare our code

to upload it to a server where it then will be served

to our end users, we typically want a different workflow.

Therefore I'll add a new config

called webpack.config.prod.js.

This name is not up to you

because Webpack will not look for it by default.

We'll tell it to look for it in a second, though.

Before we tell it, let's actually copy

all of the development setup here over

to this config.prod file but now let's fine tune it.

We can set mode to production, for example.

This will tell Webpack to do these optimizations,

minify our code and so on,

so you definitely want to set this here.

We'll leave entry.

In output we can't get rid of the public path

because that was required for the Webpack dev server.

Now we will not use it here, because for production,

we want to run the Webpack script

and generate our output written to disc

and not served temporarily on a locally running server.

We can set devtool to none

to not generate any source maps here

because in production we might not need them.

Now the rest can stay as it is, but we will add more.

At the bottom here, I want to add a plugins entry

and set this to an array.

Plugins are extra extensions or, well, plugins

you can add to your Webpack workflow

which will basically be applied to the entire output,

to the entire project.

Rules and module specifically

are applied on a per file level.

Plugins are applied to the general workflow.

Here I want to add a plugin

which automatically deletes everything

in the dist folder before a new output is written there

so that we always just have the latest,

most recent output in the dist folder.

For that, I'll install a brand new package

with --save-dev and that's the clean-webpack-plugin.

And this will help us clean up the dist folder,

in our case, whenever we rebuild our project.

So with that installed, let's import it here at the top.

I'll name it CleanPlugin and import it by

require clean-webpack-plugin

and with it installed in the plugins array at the bottom,

we just call new CleanPlugin.CleanWebpackPlugin

and instantiate this.

This is a constructor function and now instantiate it.

This is all you need to do here

and this will in the end tell Webpack

that before it writes something to thIS output folder,

it will clear everything that is in there.

Now we got the finished production workflow.

Now to use it, let's go to package.json

and there let's adjust this build script.

Here I want to tell Wepback to use this prod file,

this production configuration file

and we do so by adding --config

and then webpack.config.prod.js here.

This here should be whichever file name you chose

and this instructs Webpack to use this configuration file

instead of the default Webpack.config.js

file it normally looks for.

With that if you now run npn run build,

it will build your app for production

which means it gives you this optimized output.

So if you wait, here we got the bundle.js file

and this is now really the optimized code

built for production and this together

with your index.html file and the app.css file

is what you would put onto a server here

if you want to deploy your application.

This is also the end of this module.

Now let me sum up what we learned.

