Now, for this section,
I got a brand new project.
You find a basic snapshot attached,
and it's really just a basic ts config,
a basic package.JSON file and an empty app.ts file.
But in this project,
I now want to use TypeScript, of course.
It's a TypeScript file after all,
but I also want to use a third-party library.
To be precise as a basic example,
I want to use the Lodash library,
which as you can see on NPM
is a very, very popular JavaScript library.
And that's also its problem.
It's a JavaScript library.
It's not written with TypeScript in mind.
If we explore Lodash GitHub repository,
you'll see that in there,
you don't find any TypeScript code or configuration.
Instead, all that code in here is written
in plain JavaScript.
And that of course, could be a problem
if you want to use that library in TypeScript.
So let's explore if we can still use it there.
And for that, I'll just try to use one
of the array helper methods offered by Lodash.
By the way, in case you don't know, Lodash is a library
that provides tons of helper methods
that help you interact with objects, arrays,
change the structure of arrays and objects,
and many other things as well.
It contains a lot of useful utility functionalities.
For example, the chunk method, which we can use on an array
to basically split that array into multiple sub-arrays.
So we could have an array of numbers
to have a very simple demo here.
Of course, you might use it
for more complex things in reality,
but we could have a very simple list,
a very simple array of numbers,
and we might wanna split that into multiple arrays.
And that's exactly what we could do with help
of this chunk method.
So therefore, we need to install Lodash to use it
and then call that chunk method.
We can install it, for example, with this NPM command here.
So I can go back to my project
and in there run npm install--save lodash,
and that will download and install the Lodash package
and make it available in this project.
Now with that installed, we have to import Lodash,
and typically the underscore,
the lodash is used as a name for importing it.
So we could import it like this,
and then we could try to call lodash_.chunk,
pass our array to it,
and then define the the size of the chunks.
So for example, we could say 2 here
to create chunks with two elements each,
3 to create chunks with three elements each,
and then whatever remains and so on.
So here we could say 2.
Now you can already see that I'm getting an error with that.
I'm getting an error that TypeScript in the end
could not find a declaration file for the module Lodash.
Now if I try to compile this project here,
I'll get the same error if I run the compiler
in my folder here.
