Okay, so you'll learn about this trick

or dissolution, it's not really a trick,

it's simply how you use JavaScript libraries

in TypeScript projects

where you install the @types package

that adds the missing types to the project.

Now, let's take a closer look

at what we actually installed here though.

And we can do this here on GitHub

or of course also in our node modules folder

because that is ultimately where the libraries

that we use in a given project are downloaded to

and stored in.

So here we see the @types folder,

and in there we see the lodash sub folder

and in there we have essentially all the files,

we can also see here like add.d.ts, after.d.ts,

we find those here as well.

And these are simply files that contain type definitions

for the different utility methods offered by lodash.

So for example, we also find a chunk.d.ts file here

and also in our node modules folder, of course.

Now if we explore that file,

we can see that in this case here, it's a very simple file

that just imports chunk from dot/index

and then exports it again.

So let's take a look at this index file.

If I search for it, here let's go down, here is index.d.ts.

If we take a look at that file,

we can see that in there we got some weird code.

Now this code is a bit less weird

if you actually go through the namespace

and modules section in this course.

There you learn that this syntax here,

which looks like a bunch of comments,

is actually not a bunch of comments,

but instead a TypeScript feature where you can,

well as the name suggests, reference and kind of imports

and merge together different TypeScript

or TypeScript definition files in this case

to basically include them all in one file

or in the scope of one file without actually putting

all the code into the same file

simply to make it a bit more manageable.

But again, I do dive a bit deeper into that

in the namespaces and modules course section.

What you also see in this file here

before we take a look at these files is that

the declare keyword is used here,

which you might not have seen before,

which is a TypeScript keyword that can be used

to declare something like a constant or a namespace,

which again is covered in that namespaces

and modules course section to let TypeScript know

on a global level about the existence of a certain name

or how certain types are grouped together.

But that's not too important right now.

Instead, let's take a look at one of these files here,

one of the files that are referenced here,

in this case, the array.d.ts file,

which we find in the common sub folder.

So let's dig into that common sub folder,

go to the array.d.ts file, which is yet another .d.ts file.

And in there we now finally find a bit more code.

Now we again find the declare keyword here,

which is used here to group all of the types defined here

to gather into one common module called index,

which is the same module name used

in all the other files in this common folder.

To simply ensure that even though all these types

are stored in different files,

TypeScript treats them as all belonging together.

That's really all that's to that declare module thing here.

It's used here to split those type definitions

across multiple files

and yet have them be treated

as if they were all defined together

in one in the same file.

By the way, you might never write code like this

because it's really only needed

if you are writing your own types definition files,

which you really only need to do if you're maintaining

a library that should be usable by others

where you also want to provide type definitions.

If you're building a TypeScript application,

as we have been doing so far throughout this course,

you don't really need to declare things.

You just write your TypeScript code in there.

So that's needed here to define those types

for a library.

But if you're not building a library,

you will very likely never need

to write code like this.

Anyways, what's inside of that declared module?

Well, here we find interfaces, for example, or type aliases

so things we already learned about.

We for example, also find this interface

which contains the definition of the chunk method,

and actually we find multiple definitions

on different interfaces since the chunk method can be used

in different ways in the end.

Here, for example, we find the definition

for the chunk method as we used it

where an array is passed to it and then a size.

And here we see that chunk is a generic method in this case

since we could of course use it from the lodash Library

on an array with any kind of data in it.

So that is what we installed,

and again, you will very likely never need

to write code like this.

I'm just showing you this code so that you understand

what's happening behind the scenes.

And what is happening behind the scenes is in the end

that we installed a bunch of type definitions

that are used by TypeScript behind the scenes

to understand the types of this JavaScript library.

That's the important thing here.

So for you as an application developer,

you don't need to worry

about writing these type definition files.

Instead, you just need to know

that when you're using a JavaScript library

in a TypeScript project

and you are having problems with missing types

as we did initially here with the lodash library,

you can fix those problems

by installing the respective @types helper library,

in this case, the lodash @types helper library.

And that gives you those d.ts files,

which simply contain the type definitions needed

by TypeScript.

