Related to array types,

there also is another kind of array type in TypeScript.

There is the so-called tuple type.

Let's say you have a variable, possibleResults,

and you know that this variable should eventually store

an array that accepts exactly two values

with clearly defined types.

So let's say eventually we wanna store an array in there

where we have one or minus one, these two values.

If that's the case, you could, of course,

set the type of possible results to number array like this.

Now, you could store one minus one

like this in this variable,

but you could also store, let's say,

five, 10, 12 in that variable.

Now you might wonder why you would do that

if that's your code.

After all, you are in control of this code,

but imagine that you're working in a bigger team

and not every colleague knows which kinds of values

or which kind of structure should go into this variable.

So you might wanna be a bit more clear than just accepting

any array full of any numbers.

Well, that's where a tuple can come in handy.

Instead of defining possible results to be a number array,

you could define a tuple type by, again,

using square brackets,

but now you put your types into the square brackets.

By doing that, you're telling TypeScript

that possible results is a tuple, which is an array

of a fixed length with clearly defined types.

And here in this example, you're telling TypeScript

that possibleResults will be in array

with exactly two values,

where the first value will be of type number,

and the second value will be of type number,

which is why this value here is accepted,

but this one here is rejected.

Of course, you could also have a mixture of types here

and say that the first value must be a number,

the second one must be a string.

Now this would be rejected as well.

Now with that, you could still pass in

any kind of numbers here, but it could at most be two

and it must be numbers,

which clearly is already an improvement

compared to what we had before.

Now, TypeScript would even give you a feature

of being even more precise

so that you could clearly tell TypeScript

that not any kind of number is allowed here,

but one or minus one,

but that's a feature we'll take a look at

a little bit later.

For now, it's just important to know about tuples,

which can be helpful if you are dealing

with fixed length arrays

where you clearly know which element at a certain position

in the array should have which type.

