[Maximilian Schwarzmüller] So what is Zod?

Well, first, it's important to understand

that it's just an example for a library

that's written for TypeScript, In the end,

it's not the only one.

For example, the class-validator library

would be another library that's written for TypeScript,

in the end.

It's a library that allows you to use decorators

inside of a class to add validation logic

to the various class properties,

to ensure that in this example, for example, title,

this property on this Post class here,

must be set to a string that is at least 10 characters long,

but no longer than 20 characters.

So that could be a useful library

if you are working with classes,

and you want to add TypeScript-powered validation logic

to your properties.

Zod is also about validating data,

because that's one of the strong advantages

of TypeScript in general,

ensuring that things have the right type.

I mean that is TypeScript's overall thing,

and Zod takes that to the next level,

just like Class Validator does for classes, for example.

Because Zod is all about you defining the structure

of values, the types of values,

and Zod ensuring that the actual values

you're working with have that shape and structure and type.

And it might not be immediately obvious what exactly I mean

by that, because TypeScript in general

is about ensuring that the correct types

are used in the right places.

So it's best to simply dive into Zod

and explore how it works.

And for that, we'll start with the installation.

Now here we learned that we must have TypeScript installed,

and that we should have strict set to true.

And then with that we can run npm install zod

to install that package.

So let's do that here.

Now, as mentioned, Zod is built for TypeScript.

So you don't need to install an extra types package,

and instead you can simply start using it,

and import something from 'zod'.

And that something is the z constant,

in the end.

Which, in the end, holds an object

that exposes a broad variety of methods

you can call on it.

And to understand which methods you can call it,

it's important to understand what exactly Zod does for you.

And what it does for you,

is it allows you to define a schema

for any kind of data you might be receiving.

For example, for the data you might be receiving

for an incoming request, if you're building a web server.

But it could be any other kind of data.

It could also be data read from a JSON file.

And that is what I'll do here.

I'll add a data.json file, simply a little dummy file

where I'll have a "title": "Test",

and an "I'd": which is a number, 5,

and then I wanna have a "values": key,

which is an array of strings,

Strings that contain numbers, but still strings.

Like this.

So that's just some dummy data

that we might wanna to use in our project.

And in our code, we might be well aware of the shape

of data we expect to get, but we might not be so sure

if the actual data we get matches that shape,

because it's user-generated

or because maybe the shape changes from time to time.

That's where Zod then comes in.

Because with, so you can define the shape of your data

and then perform runtime validation for that data,

or for that defined shape.

And that's the difference to TypeScript,

because TypeScript is of course compiled to JavaScript.

So at runtime it's JavaScript.

So, TypeScript does not allow you to validate anything,

any type of value at runtime.

It's a compilation thing instead.

Zod, on the other hand,

allows you to transfer the advantages of TypeScript,

which you have during compilation to the runtime.

And here's how that works.

You can define your schema, your data schema,

let's call it like this, dataSchema.

And then use the set object here

to call various utility methods.

For example, if you expect the dataSchema

to simply be a string, you could call the string method.

And with that you would tell Zod

that you expect data to, in the end, be a string.

If you now get some data,

so if we now import,

let's import from node:fs

to use the node file system module.

And actually here I get an error.

So I need to install @types/node

and do that as a development dependency like this.

That allows me to use those built-in node modules

without problems in TypeScript.

And if I now use that to read a file synchronously,

and I wanna read that data.json file,

and then get the content like this, that will give me,

in the end, a string, you could say.

Now I could use dataSchema,

and call the parse method and parse my content to it.

And what that will do, is it will use Zod

to parse whatever value I'm passing to parse,

in this case, the content I read from the file,

and check if it's in line with my defined dataSchema.

And it will do that at runtime, again, with just TypeScript.

If I were saying that something is a string, like this,

that will get compiled away,

it will not be available at runtime.

Zod, on the other hand,

uses names similar to what we know from TypeScript,

like string, and it will run at runtime

because we're not using TypeScript features here,

we're calling methods from the library instead.

So that will then give me the parsed data,

which is a string.

But if data turns out to be something else,

I'll get an error.

So for example, if I expect to get a number here,

if I change that to number, parsed data will be number.

But if I run this file and content turns out to be something

that's not a number, I'll get an error.

So if I compile my project here, for example,

and I therefore get this app.js file

here in the dist folder,

if I run node dist/app.js

I'll get a ZodError, that I expected to get a number,

but I actually got an object,

because content is a buffer here,

which can be converted to a string,

but which is raw form is an object,

and it's definitely not a number.

And that's the idea behind Zod.

You can define expected schemas,

and you can then use your schemas to parse data

where you want a certain shape,

where you need certain types to be used,

but where you are not sure whether these types

are actually being used because it's user-generated,

or because it changes from time to time

or for any other reason.

