Now, when using Zod,

you can also take it a step further.

Thus far, we have only JavaScript code in here,

but we get all the advantages of using TypeScript

because, thanks to Zod, the proper type

is set behind the scenes for parsed data.

But what if we now want to have a function output

that should actually receive the parsed data

and then console log it?

And of course, in reality,

we might be doing something more useful with it.

Well, the problem we have in this case is that,

since I'm in that TypeScript file,

I need to define the type of data we'll get here.

Sure, I could set it to any,

but nah, it's really not that great

if we wanted to do more with it than just log it.

The type I actually wanna set it to

is the type I'm getting down here,

the type that's set behind the scenes by Zod.

Well, turns out you can get access to that type.

You can define a type alias,

so switch to the TypeScript world here.

Name it data, maybe, and of course,

we can now copy that type definition that's produced by Zod

and use that here and use data as a type here,

and that would then allow me to call output

and pass the parsed data to it.

That will work, but it's also annoying,

because this approach means

that whenever I change my shape up here,

if I add some new key and set this to a string,

I also need to change that down here, and that's not great.

That's really error-prone.

So that's why Zod gives you an easier way

of constructing type aliases.

You can use the Z thing here again and use infer,

which is a type alias you are now accessing

on that Zod namespace again, on that Z namespace,

and infer works such that it's a generic type alias,

where you use angle brackets therefore,

and where you pass type of data schema, in this case,

as a value for that generic type parameter.

So I'm not calling infer as a method here.

There are no parentheses.

Instead, I'm passing the type of data schema to infer.

Now, the type of data schema is a Zod object.

It's a very complex thing

because it's the result of calling z.object,

but the infer type provided by Zod then simplifies that type

that's yielded by type of and simplifies it to this type,

which is the exact same type parsed data will be of.

So this infer type alias provided by Zod

is a utility feature, a very useful utility feature,

offered by Zod that gives you access

to the type definition that's generated under the hood

by Zod for your schema, and that then allows you

to use it under your own type alias anywhere in your code,

and with that, we get the best of both worlds.

We got runtime validation,

which is a feature you might need in many apps,

and we got type safety, all just because we're using

this very useful TypeScript-first library called Zod.

And with that, just to prove that it still works,

if I compile this and I then run it,

this executes without any error,

and I got this object printed here,

which, of course, contains the data that was read

from this dummy data JSON file.

And that's a simple example

for using a TypeScript-first library,

and Zod is indeed a library that can be very useful

in many projects, because many projects do need

to validate data.

