For this, attached you'll
find this starting project.
It's the good old starting project we already know.
And there in app.ts, we can write some code.
In index.html, we got basically nothing.
Now my goal here is very simple,
I wanna build a simple web application
where we can enter an address, then I want to look
at this address and convert it into a pair of coordinates.
And we'll do this with help of Google,
with one of Google's APIs.
And then I want to render these coordinates,
I want to show these coordinates on a map,
which we will also render with help of Google Maps
or with help of Google, specifically with the help
of the Google Maps JavaScript SDK.
So we'll be working with two third party libraries here,
this HDP ascending library and the Google Maps library.
With that I'd say, let's get started.
Let's get started by building the very basic skeleton.
Now this is no html and no styling course,
so we'll keep this fairly simple.
I'll create a div here in index html
which we'll get an id of map.
My goal is to render the map in this div later.
Now in this div at the moment, I'll add a paragraph
where I say, Please enter an address.
So that we see this paragraph whilst we haven't picked
a place yet.
Below this div I'll add a form without an action
and without a method because I will handle it in TypeScript.
And in this form I want to have an input of type "text",
with an id of "address",
and below that a button of type "submit",
where I say SEARCH PLACE or SEARCH ADDRESS,
whatever you wanna say.
The goal is of course that when we submit this form,
we get the value the user entered here,
and then we convert this into coordinates,
which we render here on the map.
Now let's add some styling because we need at least
some basic styling.
Therefore I'll add a link here and point at "app.css",
which is a file we have yet to add.
In this CSS file I'll set up some very simple styles
for the map.
I'll give it the width of 90% and a height of let's say
20rems, so that we see something on the screen,
a border of one pixel solid and a light grayish look,
a margin of two rem top and bottom and auto left and right
to center it.
And then I will use display flex in there to set up
flex box where we can use justify content, center
and align items center to center this paragraph
which I show initially in the middle of this box.
I will also set text align to center
so that the text in the paragraph also is centered.
With that for the form we can also select this
by the form tag.
Here I also want to use text align center
to center this all in the middle of the screen,
so to say.
Give it a margin of two rem and auto so to add some spacing
between the map and the form and that should be it.
On the page we should now see something like this.
Now I wanna change my font here,
so for the overall html selector I'll set the font family
to Sans Serif, but with that I'm good.
And you can certainly style more.
You can certainly style this input or the button,
but I don't wanna worry too much
about the styling part here.
Instead I wanna make sure that this works.
But feel free to of course to improve the styling here.
With that prepared, however, let's make sure
that now we actually fetch whatever the user entered here
and looked it up with the help of Google.
