You can search for Google

Geocoding API and you will find the official

Geocoding API Docs.

The Geocoding API is an open API,

which you can use to translate an address

to a pair of coordinates

or a pair of coordinates to an address.

Now here, we wanna do a look up,

where we provide an address.

So, this normal geocoding request here

and get back coordinates.

Now for that, we can send a request

to this URL but we need an API key to do that.

And we can get one for free.

All you need for that is a Google account

and (mumbling) a credit card.

Unfortunately, you need that.

It will be free because there's a very generous

free tier, which you can use every month

and we will not exceed that free tier

with what we're doing here.

But still you need a credit card

to be able to use Google Maps features, unfortunately.

If you don't have such a credit card,

unfortunately, you can't use the API.

So, create a Google account

and then to get such an API key,

click on get started here.

And get started will take you to a page

where you can tell Google which features you want.

And we want the Places feature

because that includes the geocoding API

but we also want the Maps feature

because that will include the Google Maps

Java Script SDK, which we need a little bit later.

So, check these two and then click continue.

Next, you have to select a project

for which you want to enable this.

And you can even create a new one

or pick an existing one.

Once you do that, you are forwarded

and you should be asked whenever you want to

set up billing for this account.

Simply confirm this.

And after a while of waiting and loading,

you will be presented your API key,

which you can use.

Side note, you can also restrict the apps,

which are able to use that key

in this Google developer Console.

But here, we can just copy that key

and use it in our project.

So, let's store that key.

Maybe here in a constant.

Google API key.

And let's next focus on sending a request.

For that, let's again Google for Google Geocoding API,

so that we get this URL again here.

This URL is the URL to which we need to send the request.

And for that, we need some way of sending

a request from inside our type script

and therefore Java Script code.

