Now sending a requests is possible

without a third party package.

In modern JavaScript in modern browsers,

you have to fetch API.

This is built into browsers,

it's a globally available function and you can use it

to send requests to URLs.

Now there's nothing that speaks against this API,

besides the fact that error handling

can be a bit clunky with it.

But I also want to practice the usage

of third party libraries.

Therefore, we will use the very popular axios package.

This is a package you can use in JavaScript

and therefore also in TypeScript to send HTTP requests.

So we just need to install axios to start using it.

For this in our project where we can use NPM

to manage dependencies, we can run npm install,

dash, dash save axios just like this

and this will now install the axios package.

With this installed, we can now import axios here,

import axios from axios,

and you will see something interesting.

If I now start using this and I type a dot here,

I get autocompletion.

And for example, you have a get method here

which will send a get request to a URL.

So here we actually got built-in TypeScript support.

And if we go to node modules and we have a look

at the axios package, here it is.

You will see that in there, there is an index.dts file.

So the axios library authors already bundled their library

together with such a TypeScript translation package.

In there, everything is explained to TypeScript.

This package or this file here basically explains

to TypeScript what this JavaScript library is able to do

and which types it uses.

Now some libraries do that and axios is one of them.

You can tell pretty fast if a library does this or not,

if you start using it.

If you get no autocompletion support

and you got a lot of compilation errors,

you probably need to install extra types.

If you get good support like we do here

and you will get no compilation errors thereafter,

well then you already got a library

with built in type translations.

And hence, you don't need to install any extra types.

Good to know and here we have a great example.

So since we have built in support,

we can start using access right away.

And I wanna send a HTTP request to this URL now.

So let's copy this URL and let's enter it here.

And I will enter it between backticks

to create a template literal,

so that they can easily swap parts of this string

for dynamic for other values.

So let's paste in that string, it is quite long

and let's start by replacing your API key at the end

with our Google API key which we stored in this constant.

For this, since this is a template literal,

we can add dollar sign, curly braces,

and then point at Google API key to use this constant.

In addition, let's swap this address.

Here we got a dummy address entered

and of course there I want to use

the address the user entered.

Now just one important note, this address, of course,

is exactly the text the user entered

and they offered can contain special characters,

whitespace, commas, and much more.

And not all these characters

and symbols are supported in URLs.

So we need to convert this entered string

into a URL compatible string.

And thankfully, TypeScript and JavaScript specifically

has a built-in function that helps us with that,

the encode URI function.

We can call that and pass a string to it

and this will convert this string

to a URL compatible string.

With that we got the finished URL

to which we can send the request

to get back our coordinates.

Now get gives us a promise because of course,

sending such a request as an asynchronous task.

And there we have a then log if this succeeds

or catch if we have a technical error

or an error response code.

So here we'll console log any errors we might be getting

at this point, because normally we should succeed.

And therefore here, I will expect my response

in the then block and I also want to log this response then.

So now with that, I'd say, let's see what this gives us.

Let's rerun NPM start to bring up that webpack process again

and start building this.

And let's go back to our application

and enter a place here like Sixth Avenue.

If I hit Search Address, you'll see after a while

you get an output here.

And there you should have a status code of 200

which means that the request succeeded.

And you have a data field which holds the data

the server replies with.

That data field has a results field

and in there we have an array, as you can tell.

In that array, we got a couple of items, the number varies.

And these are basically the results Google found.

And the first result is typically the best one.

So if you have a look at that, we see for example,

the formatted address.

So the address which Google found

for this address we entered,

it's a bit more complete than what we entered.

And we got the geometry key here.

And if we expand this, we see that in turn

has a location key and this finally is an object

with the coordinates we are interested in,

a latitude and a longitude.

So in the end, we have to drill into data, results

and then there the first result, geometry, location

and we will have an object with a latitude and longitude.

And we will be able to then render this latitude

and longitude on a map later.

So for now, let's just extract this

and let's get our coordinates

by accessing response dot data dot results.

And then there the first result dot geometry dot location,

so really drilling into this.

Now what you will notice of course,

is that whilst TypeScript does not complain here,

we also got no good TypeScript support here, right?

If I type a dot here, it's not suggesting

that there is a results property.

And indeed, I could try to access anything here,

even something which does not exist on the response

and that makes sense.

How would TypeScript know what will be in the response

of any URL I'm sending a request to?

TypeScript does not go ahead

and send the request during development

to find out what's in there,

that would also not be that good.

But we can tell TypeScript what we expect

to be in the response because this get method

actually is a generic method and there is any thing here,

that is actually the type of the response we expect to get.

So here, I can add my response type

and I can tell TypeScript that what I expect is an object

which has a results key, which then in turn,

is an array full of objects,

where every object has a geometry key,

which then in turn is an object,

which has a location key, which then in turn is an object,

which has a latitude, which is a number,

and a longitude, which is a number.

So definitely quite a complex type.

But with that, if we type a dot here, I get autocompletion

and TypeScript understands what I'm accessing here.

And of course, we can also pull this type out of here

and create our own type alias.

Maybe here, Google geocoding response.

That would be my custom type here,

and then I can tell TypeScript that here I expect

to get that Google geocoding response.

Now, of course, actually the response contains more

than just the results array, it also has a status code

and it also has multiple other fields

in each item of the results array, then the geometry.

Now, of course, you can simply add all these fields

to your custom type here, but here I really just want

to focus on the values I'm actively interested in.

And therefore there is actually one other field

which I will add, and that is the status next to results.

So right here on the top level, we got status

and that will be a string

which tells us whether Google succeeded or not.

And status will actually either be okay

or a couple of other values.

This is basically a status message Google responds with

to tell us whether it succeeded fetching coordinates

for this address or not.

And of course, in the official docs we can learn

which kind of responses we might get back here.

If you scroll down a little bit

and click on understand the response,

you learn what's inside the response you get back

and therefore click on geocoding responses.

And then on status codes, we learn

about the available status codes.

For example, we all got zero results if nothing was found.

We got a couple of other codes as well,

but here I really only care about these two.

So I tell TypeScript that here, I get a status code

which is one of these two values.

Now again, it might have a number value as well,

but this is good for me here.

As I said, you can of course write this

in a more complete way.

Now with that added, down there in the then block,

we can check if response dot data dot status is not okay,

which means something went wrong and in that case,

we can throw an error here and therefore we will end up

in the catch block where we could

set up some error handling.

So here we'll throw an error could not fetch location.

And then here in the error handler to do something,

we can throw an alert where we output

the error message at least.

This is of course, just some very basic error handling.

Otherwise if we have a success response,

we fetch our coordinates here and now we can use

these coordinates to output them on a map.

