So how can we output the coordinates on a map now?

For that again, we'll use a Google API.

If you search for Google JavaScript Maps,

or Google JS Maps, you'll find the official docs

for the google JavaScript Google Maps API.

And here you'll learn how you can use Google Maps

in your web application to render a map.

And it's really straight-forward and simple.

First of all we need to add this script here,

which will add this Google Maps SDK to our application.

So simply grab that script, and add it to your

index html file, above your script.

Now important, we don't install this NPM,

because it's not published to NPM,

hence we use this CDN link, which pulls the script,

directly from Google's servers.

And here we need to setup our API_KEY.

Now that's of course the API_KEY we already have here

the typescript file, so we can just copy that

into index html and replace YOUR_API_KEY with it.

And also get rid of this "&callback=initMap"

thing at the end,

this would trigger a function as soon as this map is loaded,

or as this SDK is loaded, and that's not

something I want here.

So, with that, we're loading this SDK,

and now we can use it, and here's where we'll

have a problem.

I want to use it render a map,

and rendering a map is actually straight forward.

In the official docs, we see that in the end

we have to instantiate this google.maps.Map

constructor function, pass a center to it,

which is essentially...

This pair of coordinates we're getting from the back,

and add a zoom level.

So we can just copy this,

and then here once we've got the coordinates,

execute this code,

and maybe store map here in a constant named "Map."

But of course we get an error here.

"Cannot find name google,"

and that makes sense, this will not be available globally,

but typescript doesn't know that.

It will be available globally, because of this

JavaScript SDK we're importing.

But of course typescript doesn't know this.

You'll learn what you can do there,

you can of course use "declare var google,"

and set this to any.

With that you're telling typescript,

"It's fine, this will exist, don't worry."

We can do that, and the error goes away.

Now we can also use our coordinates here,

instead of the hard-coded ones,

and if we also want to render a marker,

that's also possible.

In the official docs, simply click on,

"Adding a map with a marker,"

we learn, that adding a marker is straight-forward

we just use the map created,

and create a marker with this command,

and point at this map.

So we'll just copy this code snippet here,

and back in our code, after we created the map,

I create my marker like this,

and the position here again are my coordinates.

So this will now render a map,

and place a marker on it.

The only remaining thing is that,

we need to ensure that this map

is rendered in the right place.

By default it looks for a element with an I.D. "map"

and that is what we have here.

But if you chose a different I.D. here,

make sure to adjust this in your typescript code.

With that if we save this,

it compiles without errors,

and now if I enter an address here,

it should render this.

So this is working, and we can adjust the zoom level here,

to be zoomed in a bit more,

for example changed it to 16,

and now if we try this we can see it a bit clearer.

But it is working, and that is what we can tell.

We can scroll around, and use this map.

This is all nice, but it's not optimal.

Of course it works, thanks to "declare var google,"

we're not getting any errors.

But we're also not getting any type support.

IF I introduce an error,

if I for example refer to ".map" instead of ".maps"

it compiles without issues,

and it only crashes in production thereafter.

If I try to render a map.

Now I get an error here, caught by our error handler.

So this is of course not what we want.

We want type support, we wanna handle dump mistakes

like this, during development, and not at runtime.

So how can we ensure the typescript knows Google Maps?

Types to the rescue.

If you search for "types google maps,"

you find various packages, which adds types for,

well, Google Maps.

Now we didn't install the Google Maps package

through NPM, but we can still install types

for that package through NPM.

And here I'll go for this first package,

and simply install that into our project.

So let's go back, quick development server,

and run "npm install --save-dev

"@types/googlemaps," one word.

That was the name of this package.

This will now install global types for this package.

So now if I restart this with NPM start,

let's see if we have a better situation.

If I remove this "declare var" thing here,

or I comment it out.

It still compiles, now this google maps thing here

is detected, and if I try to access ".map" here,

I get an error, I also get auto-completion now

and it sees, "Yes, there is a maps thing."

It also tells me that this map constructor,

needs a "Div" or an "Element" where it should render

the map as first argument,

and then some options for the map.

So this is now working here, as it should.

And this is of course a great step forward,

because now we have our working application,

and it did work before as well.

But now it works also with types,

and with a proper type support.

And this staffer is another great practice,

for how you build applications with type script

and use certain types of features,

but it's especially a great practice for how

you can work with third party libraries.

Some, like "axios" bring their own types.

Others, aren't even installed with NPM,

and yet you can add types with an

appropriate types package.

I hope this module was helpful,

for understanding this,

and for all future projects you might be working on,

where you most likely will also work,

with certain third party libraries.

