Arrays and tuples are helpful features.
Sometimes, quite often, actually, you are going to deal
with objects though when working with JavaScript.
It would be quite common to you, for example,
have a user variable that should contain an object
where you might have a name and an age, let's say.
That's not uncommon at all,
and that's why TypeScript is well-prepared
for dealing with objects and object types.
Indeed, if you assign this kind of value to this variable
and you hover over the variable,
you see the inferred type for this value,
so that's now not an object value here.
That, instead, is an inferred object type,
and as you can see here for this value,
where I have an object with a name and an age property,
where name is a string and age is a number,
TypeScript infers that user will hold an object
where we have a name and age property
where name is a string and age is a number,
which makes a lot of sense.
Of course, you could also explicitly assign this type here
like this if you wanted to, so this might look weird,
and this might look like you're defining an object value,
but actually, since we're on the left side
of the equal sign, after the colon, after the variable name,
this here is not a value, but a type definition,
an object type definition.
And here, you can really, again,
use any types you already know.
If age should also be a number or a string,
you could use a union type here.
If you want to have a hobbies array in there, you can do so.
You can have a nested array in that you user object.
Now, a hobbies property is required,
and it must hold an array of strings.
You can also have a nested object in there, like a role,
where maybe you want to have an object
where you have a description, which is a string,
and an ID, which is a number.
You can really get creative, and as you see,
you can really write quite complex type definitions,
but it still is a type definition,
and it is a feature provided by TypeScript,
and indeed, you will quite frequently deal with object types
when working with TypeScript,
so it's really important to understand that defining them,
in the end, is really straightforward.
It's almost like writing a object in code,
just that you're not dealing with values,
but with types here.
Now, of course,
now that I added this more complex object type here,
I'm getting an error that the type I'm actually assigning
to user, which is the type of this value,
which is a quite simple object here,
a simple object with only two properties,
that this does not satisfy my type condition, you could say,
because I'm expecting a type that has way more properties,
a name, an age, but also hobbies and a role,
and currently, I'm not passing such a value.
So here, we would have to add hobbies,
and I'm getting autocompletion now
due to my type definition here,
which is another very useful feature.
My IDE understands that a hobbies property is expected here,
so it helps me write that, and in there,
I then can set up my hobbies array with sports and cooking,
and again, if I would add a number here, I'd get an error,
because hobbies, as defined up here,
must be an array of strings.
So we get that TypeScript support all the way down
even to the most deeply nested properties,
and speaking of nested properties,
here, we also need a role property,
which holds a nested object where I then have,
as my IDE correctly understands, a description,
which could be admin, and an ID, which could be five.
And now with this value here, this error up here went away
because now, we are passing a value to user
that satisfies this type definition,
and that's how you can work with object types in TypeScript.
