Lecture resource: https://github.com/mschwarzmueller/understanding-typescript-resources/blob/main/attachments/18-react-ts/starting-project.zip
Now in order to use React with TypeScript,
we need a React project
and we'll create one with help of Vite,
which is a very popular
project creation and management tool, you could say.
It has lots of features and in this course,
we will not dive deeply into Vite,
but we can use it to create projects
and to do that, all you have to do
is run "npm create vite@latest"
and then choose any project name of your choice,
like "react-ts" for React TypeScript.
The name is up to you though.
Hit enter and you should then be asked
which blueprint or which template
you want to use for this project and as you can see,
Vite supports a broad variety of frameworks
and project setups.
Here, I'll go for React
and choose TypeScript,
and that's it.
That created a new folder,
which is set up for using React with TypeScript.
Now, here I am in this newly created project,
and as you can see,
a bunch of files and folders were created for us,
including a tsconfig.json file,
which references some more detailed config.json files,
so that you don't have to configure TypeScript on your own.
You can of course do that if you want to.
You can tweak those settings,
but you should know what you're doing if you are doing that,
but you can absolutely do that.
The defaults should be fine for most projects though.
In the package.json file,
you'll also find a bunch of dependencies
and for example, you'll find some types dependencies
with React specific types.
Here for me, it also created a project for React 18,
so I'll quickly fix that by installing React 19,
which is the latest version
at the point of time where I'm recording this,
because of course, I wanna show you how to use TypeScript
with that latest version of React.
I'll also update those types packages
to include the types for React 19,
just like this.
Okay and with that, the project is prepared.
Of course, you can also install any other dependencies
you might need in your project.
Now in that project, you'll also find a src folder,
which includes some source files for a basic demo app
and you can run that demo app for development
by running this dev script,
which starts a development server,
which will watch your files
and automatically reload your site
whenever you save a change to a file.
So by running "npm run dev",
you can start that development server.
Once you're ready for shipping to production,
you can run the build script with "npm run build"
to in the end, produce
a production ready version of your app,
which will also include compilation of your code
to produce JavaScript code instead of TypeScript
and then you can run that build version,
but for development, it's "npm run dev",
which will of course also behind the scenes,
compile your code on the fly so that in the browser,
it's actually the compiled JavaScript code that's running.
So if I now visit local host 5173,
which is the default port used by Vite,
I see this project there
and here, I can click this counter, for example,
to change that number
and that is a React and TypeScript app up and running.
You'll also find my project snapshot
attached to this lecture
so that you can start with that same base app,
which I have here
and now we can dive a bit deeper
and see how we can use React with TypeScript
and how we can use concepts like components, props,
state, and so on in a TypeScript world.
