Lecture resources:
- https://github.com/mschwarzmueller/understanding-typescript-resources/blob/main/attachments/18-react-ts/index.css
- https://github.com/mschwarzmueller/understanding-typescript-resources/blob/main/attachments/18-react-ts/goals.jpg

So, let's get started with
using TypeScript and React here.
And for that I prepared a new index.css file,
which you find attached.
And you should replace all the styles in your index.css file
with the ones of the attached index.css file.
You can then also delete the App.css file
and in the App.tsx file,
and I'll get back to this weird extension,
in that file you can delete all the imports,
this useState code
and simply return
just Hello World here, for example.
So have a very simple App.tsx file.
Last but not least, attached you find a goals.jpg file,
which you can copy into your Assets folder
and get rid of that .svg file.
That's an image we'll use
for this demo app we'll build here.
And with that, we have a very lean basic setup
where we can now get started with React and TypeScript.
And I wanna get started by adding a new component
because ultimately React is, of course,
all about building components.
For that I'll add a new components folder
and in there I'll add a header.tsx file
because I wanna add a header component.
But what's up with this weird .tsx extension?
Well, as you probably know, as you should know,
since basic React knowledge is expected for this section,
React uses JSX code in its components.
That's this HTML like code in your component functions.
And therefore in regular React apps
that do not use TypeScript, your files typically end
with .jsx to indicate that they include JSX code.
Well, in TypeScript it's the same,
but since we're using TypeScript, it's .tsx, that's all.
And in the header.tsx file, we can now export a new
default function that could be called Header,
for example, just like that.
And that's of course a regular function
with nothing TypeScript specific about it.
In there we can return the header element,
the built-in header element,
and then let's say in there an image.
And the image should be this image.
Now in this app,
I'm only using this header component in one place
and it will always display the same image,
so we could just link to that image
from right inside that header.
But of course this section is about teaching you
how to use TypeScript with React,
and therefore I wanna make it a bit more fancy,
and I wanna accept a prop here,
which I pull out with object destructuring.
So I get my props argument here, my props parameter,
which will be an object,
and I'll use object destructuring here with this syntax.
And I expect to get an image prop, let's say,
though the name is up to you.
It's your component, you can name it whatever you want.
But now of course we have a problem here
in this React and TypeScript app,
because TypeScript does not know which type
of value image will be.
And consequently we get an error message
that the element image implicitly has the any type.
So we should give TypeScript some hints regarding
the type of value we're getting here.
Now, as I said, overall this will be a props object,
but what's the type of that?
Well, in the end, it's just an object
with the key value pairs you wanted to have.
It's your component.
You can accept any props you want.
So what you can do is you can define a type
or an interface, that's totally up to you,
that could be named HeaderProps,
but that name is also up to you.
There is no rule here that tells you
that this must be named HeaderProps.
It is up to you.
But then in there you could say
that your HeaderProps object should be an object
that has a image property, which is of type string,
or maybe it's a nested object.
So your image property holds an object
or is an object with this object type
where there should be a source property,
which is of type string,
and an alt property, which is of type string.
It is entirely up to you because it is your props object.
And now we can set our props parameter here,
which I'm destructuring to the type HeaderProps, like this.
That is how you can assign a prop type.
It's just like that.
It's a regular function with a regular parameter
for which I'm setting my type here.
The only difference is that I know that this will be treated
as a component and that I'll pass the values for those props
by using react props mechanism.
But here from the functions point of view,
it's a regular parameter, which will be an object type,
which holds a image property,
which holds yet another object type as a value,
which will have this shape.
Now I'm still getting an error,
but only that I'm not using image.
But we can change this.
To be precise,
we can now spread image onto this built-in image element.
And since image will be an object, I'm spreading the source
and alt properties as props onto this image,
which will work because the built-in image tag
does want a source and an alt prop.
So spreading these properties
as props onto this element will just work.
