Now, you might recall

that actually props in React

also have this special children prop,

which is automatically set by React.

And you would be right, but I'll get back to this later.

For now, I'll leave it like this,

because if you're not using

the children prop in your component,

it's absolutely fine to define the props type like this.

You don't have to mention children at all here.

React does not force you, and TypeScript doesn't either.

So with that component defined, back in APP.tsx,

we can return a main element, let's say,

and in there add our Header component like this.

And you should consider adding the tsx file extension here.

It's technically not required,

but it's not uncommon to add it, both works.

It should not be .jsx or js though,

instead use .tsx or nothing at all.

Now we're getting an error here

because thankfully TypeScript understands

that under the hood, Header will be called as a function

because that is how functional React components work,

and that it needs a parameter, a props parameter,

which will ultimately be an object with a image property.

So consequently, it expects to get this image property

as a prop here on the header.

Therefore, we should assign a value to this prop

and it should be an object value

because image is an object here,

that's how I defined it.

And it should be an object with a src and an alt key.

Now, how do we get the values for these keys?

Well, since I have an image

locally stored here in this project,

we can take advantage of the fact that in Vite,

we can import locally stored images just like that.

It would not work in Vanilla JavaScript,

but it does work in Vite.

And what we import here will be the path to the image,

structured such that it will work in the browser.

So it will actually be the path

to the production-ready image, you could say.

So here src is just goalsImg,

and alt could now be A list of goals, whatever.

Some alt text.

Well, and that is it.

If you save that, you should see

that image here in your header.

And that's working due to our own custom component

being used here.

But now let's revisit that idea

of having this children special prop.

How would that work?

