So let's say this header component here
does not just need information about the image,
but also wants to extract the special children prop value
so that we could use our custom header component
as a wrapper around any content we want
and then just output that wrapped content like this
inside of this header component.
That's how the children prop works in React, right?
Again, it's a core React concept.
Has nothing to do with TypeScript.
Well, TypeScript nonetheless has a problem with it.
As you can see here,
TypeScript complains that the children property
does not exist on this header props interface.
And it's of course right, we're not mentioning it here.
So what can we do, it's this special property after all.
Well, you can add it here.
It is your interface.
You can add any property you want.
But now we of course need to know which type of value
is getting used here internally by React
for this special children prop.
And the answer is a type we can import from React.
So let's do that, it's the ReactNodeType
and you can add type in front of it to make it clear
that this will not be a class or a function
or anything like that,
but that it's just a type that's getting imported here.
So that's the type we can use here.
And React node is simply anything that can be returned
and output by a component.
So JSX code, for example.
And that's exactly what children is.
So now everything's fine here in the header.TSX file.
Back in the app.TSX file,
we can now wrap our header around some content.
So for example, we could add a H1 element here
and say your course goals.
You also might notice that if I don't do that,
I'm getting an error that the children property is missing
and that's happening
because I did not make it optional here.
We could of course do that by adding a question mark.
You can do that for any prop, of course,
also for the image prop.
You can make it optional if you want to.
So children could be optional.
Now you can use header without it,
but you can also pass it to header, both works.
And that's of course also worth knowing
that you can make these props optional.
Just like any other parameters
or nested parameter properties you might expect
in non-reactive component functions,
it works in just the same way here in React.
Well, and with that, I got my title here, great.
And that's how you can use
the built-in special children prop.
