Now here's something interesting

about defining those component types though.

As I explained, you can simply define your own interface

or type like this, and assign it like this.

And that is the recommended way

of setting up your types.

But there also is an alternative,

especially in older React projects.

You might see your prop types being defined

in a different way.

And I want to show you that approach as well

so that you know it.

Instead of defining your function like this,

what you'll see sometimes is that a variable

or constant is defined, named CourseGoals, for example.

And this constant or variable then holds an arrow function,

which is your component function,

and it's then this constant or variable that is exported.

Now to pass the important type information to this function,

a type is then assigned to CourseGoals.

And that type is often set to FC,

which is a type imported from React.

So that's a type.

The type annotation is technically not needed,

but often useful to indicate that it's a type.

This stands for functional component or function component,

and it's a generic type.

And you can pass your props type

to that generic type as a type parameter,

so in my case, CourseGoalsProps.

And if you do that, you can then, again,

accept your props object here and it will be of that type.

TypeScript understands this

because this generic type parameter is mapped

to this parameter type here.

And of course you can therefore also use destructuring.

And that code will work just as well as the other code.

That's perfectly fine code.

It's just a bit more complicated to write, you could say,

which is also why this approach here is recommended

instead of using that other approach.

But you can, of course, use whichever approach you prefer.

This one is the more modern recommended one though.

But you will also sometimes see this approach, this syntax,

and that's why I wanted to show it to you.

Now, we can also get rid of that type import

because we don't need it anymore.

