So, to make this node application here
a bit more useful, I wanna turn it into a node web server.
So in the end, an application that accepts
incoming requests and sends back responses.
Therefore, what we might wanna do here
is set up a basic node JS web server.
We can do this by importing from node HTTP,
and from there import the createServer function.
But as you can already see, I'm getting an error here.
createServer is declared, but its value is never read,
sure, but cannot find module node, HTTP
or its corresponding type declarations.
In short, TypeScript does not know
what this here is about, what this library here should be.
It does not understand that this is node JS itself,
which we should have installed on our system.
And to work around that, we have to do something
you already learned about earlier in the course.
When using third party libraries,
or in this case the node JS runtime,
which might not have great built-in TypeScript support,
you need to install extra types packages.
And that is what I'll do here, as a development dependency,
I'll install @types/node.
And this will install node specific types
into my project here, and as soon as this is done,
you see that this error goes away.
So now TypeScript has all the type information
about node JS it needs,
and therefore we can now import createServer.
We can then create a server here by calling createServer.
And then to createServer, we need to pass a function
in the end, which will receive a request
and a response object, where we could use the request object
to access information about the incoming request,
something like the request method,
and where we can use the response object
to send back a response.
In this case, I'll do that with the end method,
not send, but end and send back the text, "Hello World".
Now we just need to start that server,
which we can do by calling the list method
and defining a port on which we wanna listen
for incoming requests.
Well, and with that we can again run compile.
And then once we did that, run NPM start
to start that server.
And if you now visit local host 3000,
you should see "Hello World", on the screen.
By the way, here, I just zoomed in quite a bit,
which is why it's so big.
And in your terminal where you started the server,
you should see the request method being locked,
due to this line of code here.
So that is now a basic node JS server up and running
after being compiled by TypeScript,
thanks to this types node package which we installed.
