Now there is one other TypeScript feature
related to object types that is now really related
to object types.
Let's say you have a scenario where you want
to create a variable, data, whatever the name may be,
and in there you plan to store an object
that may hold various key value pairs,
but, and that's the important part,
right now when you write the code,
you don't actually know yet which keys
will be stored in that object.
So you might wanna say that data should eventually be
any object with any key value pairs,
and you might be tempted to use this syntax,
but as you learned in the last lecture, this will not work
because this just means data must be any value
once a value is assigned.
So initially, of course, it's unassigned
and therefore undefined, but once we start assigning values,
null and undefined are not allowed, but anything else is.
So that's not what I want here.
I want data to be an object, not a string, not a number,
but I just don't care about the actual key value pairs.
I don't care about the actual key names,
the actual property names.
I don't know yet if there will be a name or age property
or anything like that.
And a use case like this is fairly common.
That's why TypeScript gives you a built in type,
the record type that can be used in such scenarios
because the record type, which again is provided
by TypeScript, it's built in, in the end
tells TypeScript that something should be an object.
So the record type means that some value must be an object,
but it's a flexible type or a flexible kind of object
you could say.
Because the record type is actually a generic type,
which is a concept we'll explore
in greater detail a bit later.
In the end, it simply means that it is a type
that is meant to work together with other types,
that needs extra type information to work correctly.
Generic types can be recognized by the angle brackets
that are used in conjunction with them.
And here the idea is that you are telling TypeScript
that you want data to be an object
full of records.
You could say full of entries, full of key value pairs.
And between the angle brackets,
you now need to define the type of value used for the keys
and the type of value stored under those keys.
So for example, in a JavaScript object,
when you define a key name
and a value of Max, the key actually has the type string.
Because even though we don't have quotes here,
this is technically a string and we could add quotes here.
Indeed, this is allowed by JavaScript.
So strings are valid key types in JavaScript.
Another valid key type would be number.
You can also use numbers as keys in your objects.
Another valid key type would also be symbols,
but we can ignore that here.
Therefore here we can say that we, for example,
want to use string key types
so that we'll have something like name or age
or hobbies as keys.
And then separated by a comma you specify the type
of values you plan to store under those keys.
And here we could say that we will store numbers
or strings, let's say.
And with that, data is now no longer allowed to be a string,
no matter if it's empty or not.
Instead, it must be an object
because record forces you to use an object.
Record means that you want to use an object,
and it must either be an empty object
or an object where you have keys
that can be identified as strings,
like entry1 or just entry or whatever.
And then the value must be either a number or a string.
So one is allowed,
and for entry two, a string would be allowed, for example.
So some string.
And therefore, whenever you need a flexible object type,
if you need to define the type for an object
where you don't know in advance,
which key value pairs will be in there,
where you might also, for example, dynamically add
or remove key value pairs,
you can use this built in record type
and just tell TypeScript which type of value you'll use
for your keys and which type of value you'll use
for your actual values that are stored under those keys.
