Now, when building
web applications with Node.js,
it's pretty popular
to use the Express.js library in conjunction with it.
Now, there are plenty
of other very popular libraries out there,
like Hono, NestJS,
Fastify, and many others,
but Express.js is still probably the most popular choice,
even though unlike those other libraries,
it doesn't have great TypeScript support built in,
but we'll get it to work.
So, what I'll do here is I'll grab this installation command
and back in my project, install this Express.js package
into this project.
And with that done, we can now change this code
to start this server and listen to the request
and send back a response with help of Express.js.
For that we should import express from express
using this ES module's import syntax again,
and then use express, this object here, or this function,
to set up a Express.js application.
But again, we're getting an error
that no type declarations were found,
because again, this is not a library
that has TypeScript support built in,
so therefore, we should install those missing types,
which we can again do by running npm install --save-dev
@types/express.
And with those types installed, this error goes away.
Now we can construct an Express app
by calling Express like this,
and we can then set up a middleware with the use method
or a GET requestListener with the GET method,
listen to GET requests to the root path,
and then again, get a request at a response object.
Potentially, if we want to log the request method,
this still works,
and send back a response with the end method, for example,
or the JSON method if we wanted
to send back a response in a JSON format.
And then maybe there have a message of "Hello World,"
something like this.
And now we just again have to call listen,
but this time on this app object.
And that's now some valid Express JS code,
setting up a Node web server with the Express library.
So again, we should run the compile script
to compile this code,
which it does without issues,
and then start this server with npm start,
and keep that process up and running, of course.
And now if I reload this local host 3,000 page,
I see that JSON response being printed here.
And here in my terminal,
I see the request method being printed
thanks to this line of code.
So that also works,
but now using the Express.js framework.
And with that out of the way,
we can now finally build
at least a bit more complex Node Express application
as the next step.
