[Maximilian Schwarzmüller] So, what I wanna build here
is a simple Todo management REST API.
So, I wanna accept different kinds of requests,
get requests, post requests and so on,
and manage a list of TODOS.
And for now I'll just manage that list of TODOS
in memory here
because this section of course is not about building
a super complex node express application,
but instead it's about getting you started
with TypeScript and node and express.
Therefore what I'll do here,
is I'll add a new sub folder routes,
and in there I'll add a to todo.ts file
where I wanna define those different Todo routes
I want expose.
I'll also add a data.ts file
in which I wanna manage my data, my TODOS data
or to be precise in that data.ts file
I want have a TODOS array,
which I'll use as a dummy database kind of,
to manage all TODOS in memory shared across
all requests and users therefore,
but for this demo that is okay.
And then I'll export various functions.
Add Todo function which accepts some text
which should be of type string
because of course we're using TypeScript here,
where I want to reach out to TODOS
and push a new Todo object onto this array
where I want to have an ID where I'll use math.random,
which is not a perfectly unique ID
but good enough for this demo
and where I'll store this text.
So, setting a text property equal
to the value I receive on this text argument.
I also wanna make it clear which shape these objects
in my TODOS array will have,
and therefore I'll add a type or interface here.
Doesn't matter in this case I'll go for an interface
which I'll call to do,
where I'll define that ID will be a number
and text will be a string
so that I want to have these two properties in every Todo
and that these are the types of these properties.
And with that we can add a type assignment here to TODOS
because otherwise it's not really clear
which kind of values will go into that array.
And I'll set this to Todo array.
So, if I had a typo here
and had tid for Todo ID,
the editor would warn me
because that's not in line with the type I defined up here.
Because ultimately it is about taking advantage
of TypeScript here.
Now of course add to do is not all I want.
I also want to have a function get to do where I want
to get a Todo by ID.
And for that here I'll return,
actually here I also wanna return the Todo that was added.
So, I'll actually pull that out of here,
store that in a new constant
and then add that new constant here
and also return it so that this object
is also returned by this function.
And then in getTodo I want to return the result
of reaching out to TODOS,
and finding an element in there
with the built in find method,
which will go through all items in TODOS,
and give me the item where the result of this function.
So, the return value of this function I pass to find is true
and in this functional therefore compare the ID
of every Todo in the TODOS array
with the ID I'm receiving here as an argument
to this function,
and where this yields true find will return the Todo object
for which this was true.
I'll also add a function,
delete or remove Todo, where I also want to get an ID.
And then here I want to edit it my TODOS array here.
And actually I'll set it to a variable instead of a constant
so that I can simply override it,
and set the new TODOS to the old TODOS,
after calling filter, which is another built-in method.
Filter also takes a function
which automatically receives every Todo step by step
after each Java,
and where this function returns true, the item will be kept,
where it returns false, the item will be dropped.
So, I wanna return false for the TODO
where I have this ID which I'm receiving as an argument.
So, if ID is not equal to this ID,
so that for the one item where the IDs would be equal,
this will yield false
and the Todo will therefore be dropped.
This is a nice way of creating a new TODOS array
based on the old array after filtering out
the one Todo where the IDs were equal.
I also want to add one other function here.
I get TODOS function which simply returns
the entire TODOS array just like that,
so that we can also list all TODOS if we want to.
And I want to add a update Todo function
where I want to get the idea of the Todo
that should be updated and the new text.
And then I will simply go to my TODOS array
and find the Todo as I did it here
or therefore, we can actually also just call getTodo
and pass the ID to it.
And then since we're storing objects in this array
and objects are reference values in JavaScript,
we can simply override the text here
and we'll change the text of the same item in memory
to this new text here.
Now I'm getting an error here
because thankfully we're using TypeScript
and it's warning us of potential problems like this.
Where it tells me that to do is possibly undefined.
Because of course when I call find here,
this is not guaranteed to yield an existing Todo item.
If we would have an invalid ID here,
we would not get a Todo.
So, that's why get Todo will actually
not just return a Todo but also potentially undefined.
Therefore down here where I aim to change the Todo
we should check if is truthy
and only if that's the case we should change it.
Or we should check if it's not truthy
and then maybe throw a new error,
where we say Todo not found something like this.
Alternatively,
we could also add this check here
where we try to get a Todo,
instead of immediately returning it,
we can store it in a constant,
then check if it's maybe falsey
and in that case throw an error
and only thereafter return it.
By doing that,
we ensure that getTodo we'll always return a Todo
because if we don't find one it will not return anything
but instead throw an error.
That way we can safely access it here.
Sure, we might get an error
and we'll have to handle that somewhere,
but if we succeed here, we will have a Todo
and just a Todo and we can then change its text
and then potentially returned a changed todo.
And that is how we can use some TypeScript
in a node express application.
Though of course, this code
has essentially nothing node express specific about it.
That's just some standard JavaScript TypeScript code
as you already saw it,
plenty of times throughout this course.
But it's the foundation for this basic demo app
with which we'll continue in the next lectures
and where we will now use some Node.js
and express specific code.
