So we added all this code
for managing todos with TypeScript in the end.
Now it's time to set up some routes in that todo file here
in the routes folder.
And by the way, the data.ts file
should actually not be in the routes folder,
it should maybe live next to the app.ts file
or in some other sub-folder.
But now it's time to work on those todo routes.
And for that, we can again use
something from the Express package,
because here, we can access a router
by accessing express.Router,
and that is simply an object
that simplifies the process of defining routes
that can be handled by Express.
So request handlers in the end.
For that, we should execute Router() as a function here,
and then we can use this router object here
and call .get() to register a GET route,
.post() to register a POST route,
.patch() for a PATCH route, and so on.
And here, I'll start with a POST route, a route for /todos,
which in the end should handle the creation of new todos.
So if a request is sent to localhost:3000/todos,
this route will be triggered.
For that,
we then have to set up a request handling function here
where we get a request
and a response argument automatically.
That is how Express works.
And since we add this function like this,
TypeScript also understands the types of these values here.
It understands that this will be a Request object
and that this here, Response, will be a Response object.
If we were to define this function as a standalone function,
handlePostTodos or whatever you want to call it,
you, of course, would also receive these two arguments,
but now, TypeScript wouldn't know which types these are
because it's a standalone function.
So in that case,
we have to specifically set those parameter types.
For that, we should import from Express,
Request and Response.
And these types are available from the Express package
because we installed this @types/express package here.
So now we got Request and Response,
and we can set them here.
However, here I'll not use this more complex approach
and instead just rely on the automatic type inference
by adding this function as a second argument here
to this route handler.
Well, and then here,
I expect to get some data attached to this request.
So I want to extract something from the request body.
To be precise, I expect to get the text
by accessing request.body.text.
Now, as you see,
TypeScript is not complaining about this code
because body is actually, in the end, of type any.
Because we could be getting any kind of request body here
in our route handler.
The Express package and also the Express type package,
of course, don't know which kind of request body
we'll have attached to our request.
So we should be careful about typos here.
Now, you could theoretically,
if you set it up as a standalone function, for example,
take advantage of the fact
that this Request type is a generic type,
where you can, for example,
define the type of the request body you expect to get.
But as you see,
there are a bunch of generic type parameters to be set up,
so that can also be annoying and cumbersome.
It's still worth noting that this option exists, though.
Here, I'll live with the fact that this is of type any
and extract my text like this.
Next, I'll call addToDo(),
and make sure that this import here is added,
and also make sure that it's importing from .js.
The file extension must be added here,
that is a requirement by Node.js.
And even though we're writing TypeScript code,
it must be .js here, not .ts.
That's a common mistake, but it must be .js.
With that, we can call addTodo() and pass our text to it.
Now, we'll get the added todo as a return value
due to the way we wrote this addTodo function.
And we can then therefore send back a response,
for example, in JSON format.
And here, I'll add a message "Todo added"
and attach this addedTodo under a todo key
to that outgoing response.
And with that, we handled this POST route,
and we added our first route handler.
Now, we're not done at this point, though.
You also have to export this router object now,
for example, as a default, and then go to the app.ts file,
and in there, import it,
and then also replace this dummy route here with app.use()
to register some middleware,
which is a core concept in Express, of course,
and register the todoRoutes middleware, for example.
And for that, you should import todoRoutes from,
and then go to that routes folder, todo.js,
again adding this extension.
That will register all the routes defined in this file.
And, of course, at the moment, it's only one,
but that will change.
It will register all these routes
as routes Express.js will be aware of.
That's still not all, though,
because since I'm trying to extract something
from the request body here,
we also have to make sure that for all incoming requests,
Express.js is parsing the request for their bodies
and for the data that might be attached to those requests.
And that can be done by registering another middleware,
the express.json() middleware,
which is a middleware provided
by the Express package itself,
which will scan every incoming request
for JSON formatted data.
If such data is attached,
it will make it available via the body property
on the request object.
That is how this works.
Okay, and with that, finally, we have that all set up.
We can now again run compile to hopefully compile this code.
Seems like that works.
And run npm start to start the server.
And now we need a way of sending such a demo POST request.
Now, for that, you can use tools like Postman,
which is a software that's free to use
that allows you to essentially test requests
you send to REST APIs.
But here in my case, I'm using a VS Code extension,
the REST Client extension,
which allows me to simply add .http files
where I define requests to my project here
and then send them from inside my project therefore.
So what I'll do is I'll add a test folder.
The name is up to you, though.
And in there, have a new-todo.http file.
Due to this extension installed,
I can define a POST request here
by adding the keyword POST here
and then target http://localhost:3000/todos,
/todos because, of course,
that is the path I am listening to here in the end.
Then I'll have to add the Content-Type header
and set it to "application/json", which you can do like this
to make sure that Express.js understands
that some JSON formatted data
will be attached to this request.
And then add this request body by adding curly braces here
and adding your JSON formatted data.
In my case, there should be a text,
for example, "Some new todo."
And now you should be able to click "Send Request" here
and hopefully get back a success response.
In my case, here I am getting back a 200 status code
and this newly added todo.
So that is working.
And with that, we now added our first route
with help of Express and TypeScript in the end.
Though, we didn't have to write
a lot of TypeScript-specific code, thankfully.
And that's in general how it often works.
Very often, when you have type packages installed,
you can rely on type inference, as we're doing it here
with the request and response parameters,
and write code just as you might know it
from vanilla JavaScript.
Still, we're getting all these TypeScript advantages
as we saw here when we defined our data management code,
for example.
