So now it's time to add

all those other routes this project should have

because, of course, adding todos is not all we wanna do.

Instead, there also should be a get route to todos

that simply returns all todos that exist.

So again, I have my handling function here

and then I'll get my todos

by calling the getTodos function,

which also is imported from data.js, of course.

Here, I then get my todos

and then again, I send a JSON response

by calling the JSON method,

and I'll have a todos key in there

which holds these todos.

Pretty straightforward.

There also should be a route for getting a single todo

for /todos/:id.

That is the Express.js way

of defining a dynamic path parameter.

And then we can get our todo by calling getTodo,

passing our req.params.id to it

and then sending back a response,

but there are a couple of gotchas here.

We can already see one here.

We're getting an error that this is of type string,

but getTodo actually wants an argument of type number.

Now, this params property on the request object

allows you to extract the actual values

that have been part of the incoming request

for placeholders like this here.

And then we can access .id on this params object

because I have id here after the colon.

That's just how Express.js works.

Now actually, unlike with the body,

here, TypeScript will actually understand

that ids, for example, would be invalid

because it's able to parse

this name here from this string.

So that's pretty nice.

Nonetheless, we're getting this error

regarding the fact that we have a string here

instead of a number in a place where we want a number.

And the reason for that is that your request path

will always be a string

and any value you extract from there

will always be a string.

So you have to convert it to a number,

for example, by adding a plus in front of that.

Again, we're seeing the advantage of TypeScript here.

It's making sure that we don't accidentally

run into some problem here,

but that's, of course, not the only gotcha.

getTodo could also throw an error

if we're trying to get a todo with an invalid id.

So we should also handle that scenario

and there are different ways of handling that.

Of course, we could wrap this code here with try catch.

But alternatively, we can also rely on a mechanism

built into Express.js.

We can set up a global error handling middleware,

which is a special middleware,

registered like any other middleware,

which is special due to the number of parameters it receives

because it will receive an error,

a request, a response, and a next parameter.

The next parameter here will hold a function

that you can call to continue to the next

middleware in line, if there would be one other.

So by calling next in a middleware,

you would invoke the next middleware in line.

But that is all just Express.js, not TypeScript.

So if you wanna learn more about that,

the official Express.js documentation

or courses like my Node.js course are the place to go.

Now as you see here,

TypeScript does actually not infer the proper types.

This is a valid middleware,

but still TypeScript does not infer the proper types here.

So we should add some type definitions here,

some type declarations.

And for this error here, the correct type is error.

So the error object we're getting here

will be the standard built-in error.

For req, it will be Request.

For response, it will be Response.

And for next, it will be this NextFunction type.

So Request,

Response,

NextFunction.

That's how we can define the types

for these parameters in this middleware.

And this middleware will now be invoked by Express.js

whenever somewhere else in your Express app,

in some other middleware, an error is thrown

as it might happen here when we call getTodo.

If this function throws an error,

Express.js will automatically invoke this middleware.

And therefore here,

we can send back a proper response,

a response with a status code of 500, for example,

where we have a message of, "An error occurred."

Now, of course, you could fine-tune this

to be more specific,

differentiate between different kinds of errors.

That's a basic error handling middleware you could add.

And with that, we're also handling this error use case.

So with that handled,

we can send back a JSON response with our todo.

And now, we just also need routes for updating

and deleting todos.

So starting with the update middleware,

I'll listen to patch requests

sent to /todos/:id

because again, we'll be targeting

a specific todo id, of course.

And then I'll call updateTodo,

pass my req.params.id to it and convert this to a number

and pass req.body.text as a second argument to it.

And then updateTodo will return the updated todo,

so I got that here,

and I can send back a JSON response

where I'll say "Todo updated," and add my todo

and set it to this updatedTodo.

That should work.

For deleting, we can listen to delete requests

using the delete request method.

Also assuming that we get an id here.

And then, of course, we simply invoke removeTodo.

And just as updatedTodo and all these other functions,

these imports must all be added up here, of course.

And to removeTodo,

we pass req.params.id converted to a number.

And then we can send back our response

where we say "Todo deleted"

and that should be it.

That should be all the request methods we need to handle.

In app.ts, we should also have everything set up

the way it needs to be set up,

including this error handler.

And therefore, we can now try these different routes.

So I'll add a get-todos.http file

where I wanna send a GET request

to localhost:3000.

And with that added,

I'll compile the updated code

and then start that server again and keep it running.

And, of course, now initially,

that should yield an empty array,

though actually it gives me not found,

which makes sense because the correct path would be /todos.

With that added, I get back a valid response

with an empty todos array

because the todo we added earlier is lost

because we only stored it in memory

and we restarted the server.

And therefore, if we sent that post request again

so that the todo is added

and we then send this get request again,

we should get the updated array which includes that todo.

However, here I can see

that the text was not stored somehow.

I'm only getting back an object with the id.

When I added it, I wanted to have the text in there as well,

but looks like it was missing there as well too.

So that's actually something we should fix.

And actually, the error is related

to the way I wrote my header here.

These single quotes need to be removed.

It should be written just like that.

With that done,

if I restarted server,

if I sent this request, we can see the text is here.

And if I now get my todos, we can see the text here as well.

So the app worked,

I just had my request formatted incorrectly.

So with that out of the way,

we can also try those other routes like get-todo.http

and send a GET request to localhost:3000/todo/

some specific id.

And, of course, for that to work, I need to know some ids.

So I'll first of all grab this id, which I know exists,

and then use that here and change this to todos.

And if I send this request, I get this todo.

If I try this with some invalid id like abc,

I instead get that 500 error from my own error handler.

So that also works. Error handling works.

For updating a todo,

we can send a patch request

to localhost:3000/todo/ my id,

set the content type here also to application/json

because, of course, I'm attaching some new data,

my Updated text.

With that, this looks good.

And to confirm that this really worked,

we can, of course, also get all todos again

and we see the updated text here as well.

Finally, for deleting,

we send a delete request

to localhost:3000/todo my id.

If I send this request, I get "Todo deleted."

And to confirm that it's really gone,

if I get all todos again, I get my empty array.

So that all works. These routes all work.

And that's it for how you can build a basic

Node Express app with TypeScript.

Now as you see, and as I mentioned before,

there's not so much TypeScript-specific code in there,

but you get some help here and there.

You can use these TypeScript concepts

and features you learned about throughout this course.

And, of course, the more complex your app becomes,

the more you can take advantage

of these various TypeScript features.

