Sometimes in your program,
you're going to deal with choices,
you're going to deal with scenarios
where you have a fixed set of available values
you want to accept in a certain place.
Sounds a little bit abstract. Let me give you an example.
Let's say you have a user role variable,
and a user could be an admin, an editor,
a reader, a guest, whatever.
Now you could represent these different roles via numbers.
So, 0 could mean that the user is an admin.
One could mean that they're a guest and so on.
Of course, you could write code like this,
but now user role accepts any kind of number,
but you might want to restrict it to these specific numbers.
And in addition, that's not just the only problem.
Instead, having just a number like 0 here
doesn't really tell you much if you read the code.
Sure, here I have to comment,
but let's say the comment is not there,
then it's totally unclear what exactly 0 means
and which other kinds of values should be allowed.
Well, that's where you could use an enum,
which is a newer feature offered by TypeScript,
and it's a feature that's only available
thanks to TypeScript.
It's not part of vanilla Java script.
You create an enum by using the enum keyword,
followed by any identifier,
any name for that enum of your choice,
like for example, role.
After that, you have a pair of curly braces
and it's then between those curly braces,
either in a new line or in the same line doesn't matter,
where you can define different options you want to allow.
So you can think of a enum as a type
that only allows certain kinds of options.
So for example, here we could add admin,
editor and guest as options separated by commas like this.
And again, you could also write this all in one line
if you preferred that, that would be fine as well.
But it's a bit more readable
if you split it across multiple lines.
Now you can use this enum role as a type,
so it's kind of a custom type you created, you could say,
this enum type.
So here I'm using role.
Now, interestingly enough,
I am not getting an error for my 0 here.
I do get one if I assign five or a string though,
but 0 is allowed
and I'll get back to why that's the case in just a second.
But before I explain that, let me show you another way
of setting a value for that variable
because you cannot just use this enum here as a type,
but you can also use it to grab one of these allowed values,
so to say.
By using role and then dot
and then you see my IDE gives me some suggestions here.
And I could, for example, set this user to be an admin.
And then later on after running some code
and after the user may be locked out,
we could change it to guest.
This is valid TypeScript code,
using this enum feature to use a very specific value
from a predefined list of allowed values.
Now, what's quite interesting is to see
what this gets compiled to.
If I compile this choices.ts file,
I get a choices.JS file of course,
but in that file you'll see code that looks quite different,
quite complex to be honest.
You can see that this enum, as I mentioned before,
is not a feature that's supported out of the box
in JavaScript and therefore,
TypeScript builds kind of a workaround,
you could say in the JavaScript code.
It builds an object which has these different identifiers,
you could say.
And then for these identifiers, numbers are being stored
where the first identifier admin receives the number 0,
editor receives 1 and guest receives 2.
So, Role.Admin in the end just produces the number 0.
Role.Guest gives us 2.
And that's why previously,
I did not get an error when storing 0 as a number
in a variable that wants a value of type role.
Because under the hood,
these different options are represented by numbers
where the first option receives 0, the second one, 1,
the third one, 2 and so on.
However, you could change this if you wanted to.
You could overwrite these defaults.
For example, by assigning 1 as a value for admin here,
counting will start at 1
and now admin will have the number 1,
editor will receive the number 2 and guest, as you see,
if you hover over that will receive the number 3.
And for that reason, I'm now getting an error
when I try to store the number 0 in that variable
because there no longer is an option that maps to a 0.
So that's just how that works under the hood.
You can also store strings here as values.
You then just need to assign a string to every option
since TypeScript of course, can't infer
what should come after admin for the second option.
It can do that for numbers because it simply counts up,
but it can't do that for strings.
That's another option.
But in the most simple, straightforward way of using enums,
you can use them like this
to define a list of allowed values, so to say.
