Typescript provides many types to JavaScript.
Now, JavaScript itself, also knows some data types,
and I'll come back to that in this module, as well,
but Typescript adds many more types,
and as you will also learn in this course,
Typescript also enables you to write your own types.
Now, let's start with some of the Core Types,
which JavaScript already knows
and which Typescript also supports,
and we'll also have a look at what the difference
between JavaScript, knowing the type,
and Typescript, using that type, means.
One of the core types we work with
in JavaScript and Typescript, is the number type.
Now, in JavaScript, and the same is true for Typescript,
there is only one number type.
There is no special type for integers or floats.
Instead, these values here, would all be numbers.
One would be a number without the decimal place.
5.3 is obviously one with a decimal place
and all these values are of type number.
Other programming languages have special integer types
and float or double types.
JavaScript doesn't have that
and Typescript doesn't have it either.
So, we have the number type, which we know
from JavaScript, also as a type, in Typescript.
We also have the string data type, and that would be text,
which you can define in one of these three ways,
with single quotes, with double quotes,
or also with backticks.
The last notation with backticks is a special syntax,
provided in modern JavaScript and also in Typescript,
which allows us to write so-called template literals,
that are normal strings where you can
dynamically inject some data into them.
So, strings are simply text
and JavaScript knows about string value types.
Typescript does so, as well.
Last, but not least, one of the core data types,
JavaScript knows and Typescript also supports,
is the Boolean data type.
That would be true or false,
and that's super important in programming, obviously,
especially when working with IF statements.
Here, we got these two values,
and that's important, because in JavaScript,
you also might know this idea of truthy and falsy values,
for example that zero, the number zero, is a falsy value.
If you use it in an IF condition, it is treated as false.
The Boolean data type, really just knows these two values,
though, true or false, and that's not just the case
for Typescript, but also for JavaScript.
This truthy, falsy concept, which you should know,
that is not related to data types.
That's behind-the-scenes work.
JavaScript does add runtime,
when it sees certain values, and IF conditions.
So, with numbers, strings and Booleans,
we get a couple of core data types.
Of course, not all,
we got objects and so on, as well,
but let's focus on these types
and see what Typescript does with them,
or what we can do with them, with the help of Typescript.
For this, I'm back to the project,
we saw in the first course module,
and there I showed you that all you need to do, now,
is run npm start in a terminal,
navigate it into this project folder,
to spin up this live development server,
which will reload, whenever we change something,
and here, I opened up this localhost:3000 address
in the new tab of my browser.
Right know, I'm getting an error,
because I have no app tray as file, yet.
Of course, you'll find this starting project,
all attached to this lecture,
will get such a app tray as file,
which we're trying to import here, in our index html file,
as soon as we compile app.ts from Typescript to JavaScript
and we can do that in a new tab of the terminal,
so that we keep this process running
and open a new tab instead, by simply running tsc app.ts
and what this does is, it compiles the Typescript file
and spits out a JavaScript file,
and once that happens, we can reload this page
and we get the Time to get started... output here.
So, now we have this setup here,
were we can write some Typescript code
and then compile it to JavaScript code, to see what it does.
Now, with that in the Typescript file,
I'll actually get rid of the content there,
because now, I wanna dive into these core data types,
which I just showed you on the slide,
so that you understand how to work with them in Typescript.
Now, let's start very, very simple.
Let's say, we have a new function, add,
and there we expect two numbers, n1 and add two,
and that return n1 plus n2, just like that,
very simple function, nothing Typescript-ish about it.
Now, we have two numbers with which we wanna work.
That could be number1 here, which is, say, five
and also number2, which is maybe 2.8,
whatever you want, two numbers here.
Now, obviously and not very surprisingly,
we can add, or call the add function
and pass in number1 and number2
as arguments to this function,
store the result in a new constant maybe,
and then to see something on the screen,
we can console.log the result.
If we do that, and I recompile this file with tsc app.ts,
then this page should automatically reload, already.
If not, you can manually reload,
of course, and you should see 7.8.
Now, you might think, that's not too special, right?
This is a pretty straight forward JavaScript snippet
and, indeed, there's nothing Typescript-ish does about it.
Well, let's do something which will brake
that snippet in normal JavaScript.
Let's say, this input here is actually not a number,
but some text, a five in text,
and if we now save that,
and rerun our compilation command here,
you'll see that, once this page reloads here,
I get 52.8 as a output and that's obviously
not the correct result of this addition.
Now, do you know why we're getting this output
in normal JavaScript, which we,
in the end are executing here.
Well, we're getting this output,
because this is not the result of the mathematical addition,
but instead, this concatenates this as a string,
because this input, here, five, is a string
and then JavaScript sees, "Okay, I got a string,
"I'm adding something to this string, while certainly,
"this something should also be converted to a string,
"so that overall, I got a string,
"because the first value was a string,"
and hence, what JavaScript does, is,
it converts 2.8 from a number to a string,
concatenates a longer string from five and 2.8,
hence yielding 52.8, as a string and returns that.
So, it's not treating this in a mathematical way,
but instead, as a string,
and with JavaScript, this can happen.
Now, of course, you might think,
"Why would I write such code?
"I'm the developer, why would I make this mistake?"
Well, maybe you're not the one, making this mistake.
Maybe, this is getting fetched from some user input
and you introduced a little bug in your code,
where you forgot to transform this,
or you're working in a team and you're having
a couple of script files, working together,
and some other developer introduced such an error.
It's not impossible to make such errors,
but it can be hard to track them down.
Here, of course, it's pretty obvious
that something went wrong, because we have a basic script,
but in a bigger script, you might not even
immediately recognize that something went wrong here,
and that's were Typescript can help us.
We can add type assignments
in this function, to our parameters.
We can tell Typescript that these two parameters
should be of type number and not be of type,
I don't care which is the default.
So, we do that, by adding a colon here,
after the value to which we wanna assign a type,
so, in this case, after the parameter name
and then the name of the type.
For example, number would be one of the supported names.
Besides number, you also got string,
or Boolean, but we'll come back to those.
For the moment, we need number
and we don't just need it on the first parameter here,
but also on the second one.
So, here also, we can add a colon, and then number,
and now, what we're saying to Typescript, is,
"Hey, both parameters here, should be of type number,
"passing in values of a different type is not allowed,"
and indeed, my IDE already complains here,
because Visual Studio Code has built-in Typescript support,
but even if we would overlook this,
as soon as I recompile this, by rerunning tsc app.ts,
you'll see, we get an error.
We get an error, that,
"Argument of type '"5" is not assignable
to parameter of type 'number',
and it even shows us where this happened
and gives us a line number, line eight,
and it's basically showing us the same, the IDE shows here.
So, in case we overlooked it in the IDE,
compiling it, now throws an error,
and that's the important thing about Typescript.
It only helps us during compilation.
It doesn't change JavaScript to work differently at runtime,
because browsers have no built-in Typescript support.
It can only help us during development,
before we compile our Typescript code to JavaScript,
but there, it's extremely useful,
because it adds an extra step, an extra sanity check,
where here, we find out, "Oh, we made a mistake.
"Here, this shouldn't be a string, this should be a number",
and we can fix this and we're good.
This is what Typescript does.
It helps you during development.
It does not change your runtime code.
Indeed, here, even with the default settings,
it compiled our error here,
even though it detected it during compilation,
and created a file which causes the incorrect result,
because by default, Typescript does not step in, here.
Later you'll learn, how you can make sure that it does,
but by default, it doesn't even block compilation.
Still, it yells at you and points at this mistake,
so that you can fix it,
and so that you can avoid such mistakes here.
By the way, make sure you don't have
app.js and app.ts open at the same time.
You could get errors here in the IDE,
regarding duplicate function implementations.
Closing the JavaScript file fixes this.
