So now that we know

about TypeScript fundamentals and how it differs

and all this related to JavaScript,

let's dig a bit deeper

into the different core types TypeScript knows.

The number is the type we see here, and as I explained,

there is no difference

between integers like the five here and floats or doubles,

as it would be called in other programming languages,

like 2.8 here.

Indeed, in JavaScript, and the same is true in TypeScript,

all numbers are floats by default.

So, for JavaScript, and therefore, also for TypeScript,

there is no difference between five like this

and five like this.

It's the same number, essentially.

Now, besides numbers, we also have other core types.

And that would be strings, so text, and booleans.

Let's also have a look at those.

We actually saw all of those in action here in this

if statement already, which we learned is a bit redundant.

Nonetheless, this here would be a string.

Also, of course, five

with quotes would be a string because it's text.

And the result, for example, of this comparison here,

that would be a boolean.

This operator, the triple equal sign

or the negated equality operator here,

that produces true or false.

And, of course,

we can either produce a dynamically innerRef check,

which we'll often do.

Or we initialize a variable with a true or false value,

so let's do both here.

Here, we could add a new constant, "printResult".

And set this to true, for example.

And just to make it really clear,

this could be a variable as well.

It doesn't have to be const.

It can be a variable, which you would create

with let in JavaScript.

But since I don't plan on changing it here, I will go

with a constant.

And we could pass this as a third parameter here.

Let's say we pass in "printResult", which holds true here.

Now we immediately get an error, of course,

because our add function does not support a third argument.

We see, "Expected two arguments but got three".

So, therefore, we have

to make sure we support a third argument.

And there, we could add a "showResult" parameter.

You could name it "printResult" here as well.

I'm going with "showResult"

to avoid confusion regarding the naming, but, technically,

these two names would not clash.

So, here, I'll name it "showResult".

And I want to make sure that this is of type boolean

by setting this to boolean.

Again, by adding a colon after the parameter here

and then by adding the name of the type.

Now this function accepts this, and now

what we can do is we can add a if check here and check

"if showResult", if this is true, we can, of course,

compare it to true.

But as you know in JavaScript,

you can also just pass in the truthy or falsy value here.

And JavaScript will evaluate it, and

if this yields true somehow or a truthy value in general,

then we'll make it into the if block.

Otherwise, we won't.

And let's say we do make it in here, and then I want

to "console.log n1 plus n2".

Otherwise, in the else case, if we don't make it in there,

then I want to return this.

So now this is a function

which sometimes returns a value

and sometimes does not return a value,

but output it immediately.

Now you could argue, if you wanna write such a function,

which is kind of unpredictable or

which might behave unexpectedly

if you're passing a true here.

But here, we're doing it.

So this function only sometimes returns.

Sometimes it also does not return, but instead,

just logs something to the console.

Now here, we can actually call add just like this

and don't need to store it in result and don't need

to console.log result because, with "printResult" set

to true, add itself.

So the function itself will print the result.

Hence, if we now save that

and we recompile our app.ts file here with the tsc command.

Once this is done, the page will reload,

and we still see our output here.

But now it's coming from line six.

And if we have a look, line six is, indeed,

inside the function.

So this is a boolean.

Now let's say we wanna customize the output.

In the if here, we have a "resultPhrase" constant here

where we say, "Result is" colon and then some white space.

And we pass that in as well with "resultPhrase" here.

Well, then we could expect this as a argument here as well.

Phrase, which would yield pipe string, by adding a colon.

And then string is the name of the type,

and now we could use that phrase to output it as part

of our result output if we're printing the result right

in the function.

So then, here, we could have "phrase plus n1 plus n2".

And if we do that and we recompile

by repeating that command,

we'll see that this phrase is part of the result.

But we also, now, reintroduced the old bug

because I have a string, which I combine with two numbers.

Everything is converted to a string here, and

that's not what I want.

To avoid this, in this function,

we could add a result variable here.

Or a result constant and store our result here.

This will now be treated in a mathematical way

because only numbers are involved, and then, here,

we could combine that with phrase or just return it.

And now, since this is never directly calculated together

with a string, this will always be a number.

And, yes, then here, this number combined

with this string will be converted to a string.

But since the mathematical calculation finished before that,

we'll have the right result.

So now if we repeat that and then recompile,

we get the right output.

So now these are the core data types in action.

Let's now make sure we fully understand

how types are assigned and, also,

why we don't explicitly assign types down there.

