Now besides objects, we also have arrays in JavaScript,
very important type of data.
Arrays are created like this in JavaScript, as you know,
and you can store any data in there:
numbers, strings, booleans, objects, other arrays,
you can have nested arrays, after all,
and you can also mix data.
You can have an array with strings and numbers mixed.
And TypeScript also supports arrays.
Any JavaScript array is supported and the types
of that array can be flexible, or strict.
Now let's have a look at that in TypeScript.
For that here in app.ts, let's say our person also
has a hobbies key, but of course we could also have a
variable or a constant hobbies outside of the object.
So, using arrays as exactly the same inside
of objects and outside of them.
So here we have hobbies, and hobbies
could be sports, and cooking, let's say.
So I have two elements in there, and these elements,
as you can tell, are strings.
Now if we hover over hobbies, TypeScript correctly detected
the distance of type string array.
Now that's a syntax you haven't seen before,
but this is how TypeScript describes an array of data.
You have the square brackets, and in front of that,
the type of data which is stored in there.
Now this is the type, type's group inferred.
It saw that here we have an array and that we only
have strings in there, so it inferred that hobbies
probably should be an array of strings.
And indeed, for hobbies, that makes a lot of sense.
Of course, you can also explicitly set the type of variable.
If we would add a new variable, favorite
activities, and initially that should be empty,
then we might wanna explicitly set
the type of data stored in there.
Now let's say that should be an array of strings, well then
we can just repeat what we just saw;
type string, and then square brackets there after,
and this tells TypeScript what we store in here is not
just a single string, it's an array of strings.
And indeed if I try to store just sports in there,
I get an error. I get an error because
that here is a single string, and not an array of strings.
I don't get an error, of course, if I wrap this into square
brackets and therefore effectively create an array.
I again do get an error though, if I add a number,
let's say, because we define this to be an array of strings.
Now here, we have a mixed array.
It's an array of strings and numbers, so that does
not work and is not supported here.
If we would want to support such a mixed array,
one solution would be to use "any" here.
The "any" type is a special type in TypeScript,
which we'll have a closer look later,
which basically means, do whatever you want.
It's of course a type you don't wanna use too often
because you'll lose the benefits TypeScript gives you,
your back in JavaScript world, where you also
can use any value anywhere.
So "any" is really flexible, but the flexibility
comes at the price of basically giving up
all benefits TypeScript offers.
So here I'm gonna go back to string, because I really
don't wanna have a number in there, and hence
we can remove the number and we're good.
Arrays also give us a great example, actually
just like objects and their properties,
how dynamic TypeScript's type inference is.
If we add a "for" loop here at the bottom, and we wanna
go for all the hobbies of person, we can of course
use a traditional "for" loop with
for const hobby of person.hobbies,
so accessing the hobbies property and going through
all the hobbies there,
storing each hobby for each iteration in this constant,
and then we can consult log hobby here.
Now that's not too fancy, that's something
that we know from JavaScript, right.
If I now compile this app.ts file down there,
we get the name from this line,
and thereafter the two hobbies being printed.
But what's actually interesting here is that on hobby,
we can access anything, we can access on any string.
For example, to UpperCase, I get this auto completion
and TypeScript does not complain.
Why does it not complain?
Because it knows that hobbies is of type string array,
so when I access person.hobbies, TypeScript's inference
detects that hobbies will be an array of strings.
So hobby, on the upper hand, is correctly identified
as being a string, because since we go through an array
of strings, well the individual values
have to be just strings.
And therefore types offers us great support down there,
and allows us to do anything with hobby that can be done
with a string, because it knows with certainty that hobby
will be a string because of the types we set up up there.
And that's really flexible, and of course a great
feature which makes writing code a lot easier
and way more flexible and secure.
For example, we would get an error here if it would try
to access hobby.map, if I thought this would be an array.
The map method is available on arrays, but not on strings.
And here, correctly, again, an error that map
does not exist on type string because it doesn't.
So here we get an error, and that's good that we get it,
because this would be wrong, and here we see
TypeScript's inference really, really shine.
