So arrays are supported and with numbers, strings,

booleons, objects and arrays.

We got the core values or value types,

JavaScript nos supported in TypeScript,

as you will learn at the example of objects in their arrays,

TypeScript even offers way more functional it's there but

that's a bit more advanced,

which is why we'll have a look at that later,

but even these core types with what

you'll learn in the previous lectures are supported.

Now TypeScript holds as a couple of new concepts,

new types, which we don't know from vanilla Java script for

example, the tuple type.

Now you might know tuples from other programming languages,

JavaScript does not have them.

This is a tuple for example, and you would say,

well this is an array. It is an array,

but it's a fixed length array and

actually not just fixed length but also fixed type.

And where could this be handy?

Let's say here on our, person,

we actually have a number of property, role,

which is an array with exactly two elements,

where the first one is let's say a numeric identifier like

two and the second one is a string identifier and

a human readable description like author.

Now this should always have exactly two elements because

a user or a person in this application which we're writing,

let's say can only have one role and

a role is only made up of two elements.

Of course we could have used an optic here, but

for some reason we want to have an array with

exactly two elements where the first element always is

the numeric identifier and

the second element always is the string identifier or

description or however you want to call it.

Now, if we hover over this TypeScript actually

infers this strange type which we haven't seen before,

In fact, if we dis means TypeScript understands that

we have an array which might hold even strings or

numbers, this a union type and

we'll dive into those later. The key takeaway is to

TypeScript understands that this should be an array with

these types of values.

The downs that is dead We could run this code though,

person role, push, admin.

Now for our application,

this might not make sense because

we know we only need two elements.

Still TypeScript doesn't know that

we only want two elements. We would also be able to

switch person role, the second element with index one to

be a number as well.

This would work because TypeScript only knows that

role should be of type string or number array, and

therefore assigning a number here to

the second element and therefore replacing it with

a number would be allowed because

we're just saying something about the types we generally

can use in there.

We know we want to have exactly that structure.

Two elements, first element number, second element string,

but TypeScript doesn't do that. Well for such a scenario,

a tuple would be perfect. We can tell TypeScript what

role should be, by explicitly setting the type of role.

So here we also have an example where

TypeScript doesn't phototype, but we explicitly want to

override it. Now here we can therefore add an explicit

object type by adding a colon after person,

then the curly braces and then names should be a string,

age should be a number and hobbies should be a string array.

So all as inferred by TypeScript.

So for that, we wouldn't have required,

this explicit assignment and

as you learn it would have been bad.

But now we have a scenario,

where the inference does not work in the way we want,

and, we want to set role to be a tuple.

Now instead of setting a two string array or

number array or using the same type that

wasn't third here earlier, we can now use a special type.

We use square brackets again,

but now inside off the square brackets we add number,

and then a comma and then string.

Now this marks a tuple type here.

A tuple is a special construct, TypeScript understands,

in Java scripted will be a normal array,

but during development with TypeScript,

we'll get errors with code like this here.

Now what do tuples do?

This here, tells TypeScript,

I want to have a special array, with exactly two elements,

because I have exactly two types in there and

the first element should be a number.

The second element should be a string, hence,

if we compile this code here,

I get an error regarding 10 not being assignable as

a type here, because we want to have a string as

a second value and if I then assign 10 as

a second value here,

then I obviously don't follow this rule.

If you comment this out and we compile, this works.

That's a bit strange because why does pushing work here,

because we're all saying that role should have

exactly two elements, so why can we push admin onto the

role array here.

Push actually is an exception which is allowed in tuples.

So unfortunately TypeScript can't catch this error,

but at least it ensures that we're not assigning

a wrong value here, and outside of push,

we also get some support regarding the length.

If we set person that role to a new value.

For example, an empty array is not allowed,

one with exactly the structure we defined up there,

is allowed, If I added an extra element here.

Then we would again get an error.

So the length is enforced if we assign it like this,

but not for a pushing and so on.

This is something you have to be aware of,

but still getting this support and this support,

is pretty nice and if you have a scenario where

you need exactly X amount of values in an array and

you know the type of each value in advance,

then you might want to consider a tuple instead of

an array to get even more strictness into your app to

be even clearer about the type of data you're working with

and the type of data you're expecting.

