Loosely related to the idea of a Tuple

is the idea of having a couple of specific identifiers,

global constants you might be working with in your app,

which you want to represent as numbers,

but to which you want to assign a human readable label.

And for that, you have the Enum type.

Again, that does exist in some upper programming languages.

JavaScript doesn't know it though.

It looks like this.

This is how you create a enum.

You use the enum keyword, which only exists

in TypeScript world, not in JavaScript,

there after you have curly braces,

and then your identifiers.

And this type, which is added by TypeScript

gives you an enumerated list.

So these labels are in the end, just translated to numbers

starting at zero, where you have human readable labels

you can work with in your code.

To show you an example, let's go back here

to our person with its role.

I'll copy that code and then comment it out

because I'm going to change it a bit.

And then here, I'll get rid of that

explicit type assignment and instead go back to inference,

because I'll now change role.

And now let's say we want to have a admin, an author

and maybe a read only user.

The admin should have an ID of zero,

read only user has one, author has two.

Now of course, we can store that exactly like this

with these numbers.

One downside is that we can always add a number

for which we might not have a role

and if we then later in our code, try to extract the role

and using the if check does might lead to errors.

And in addition, we, as a developer have a hard time

to understand which role this user has.

Was it to the author?

Or was it the read on the user?

You might forget this after making longer pauses,

when working in bigger teams, and so on.

So as a developer, you might want

human readable identifiers, something like ADMIN,

and READ ONLY USER, something like that.

Now, of course, we could use that,

we could work with such string values.

The problem is if we then later needed an if check,

we check if person role is equal to, was it READ_ONLY_USER?

Or was it one word?

Was it with underscores?

You see, then we have to remember

how we wrote these strings,

which exact text we have in there.

Because this string with the dashes between the words

is of course, not the same as this string.

So here, we would never make it in there,

is read only if you try to compile and print that,

because, well, the check simply doesn't yield true.

We don't have that as a role on person, hence, we don't get

the output here in the console.

So string identifiers, also have downsides.

Now for such scenarios, it's quite common in JavaScript

to define global constants.

For example, admin, which then hold certain values

like numbers or strings,

both as possible.

Numbers, of course can save us

some extra code and bits in memory.

And there we might have ADMIN, READ_ONLY and AUTHOR

like this and down there,

we then just have to use that role.

Now the advantage of that is that we can use this everywhere

in our code.

And therefore here for example, if I run this code,

if I compile it

and then we let this reload, we see as admin here,

so this works and this is a common pattern in JavaScript.

Downside is that now again, role is inferred

to be just a number, so we could store any number in there

even a number which we don't support.

And in addition, we have to define all these constants,

we have to manage them.

This is where a enum can save us work.

This is totally fine, but a enum makes it easier.

We create a enum with the enum keyword,

we can name it Role, convention is to start

with the uppercase character

because the enum also is a custom type.

It's your first custom type, we're going to write many more

in this course, this is the first one.

And then after the name of the type you want to assign

to this enum, you add curly braces, just like that,

no colon, no equal sign, just curly braces after the name.

Then a semicolon.

And now in here, you can assign your values like admin,

read only,

and author.

And behind the scenes this here receives the number zero,

this here number one, this here number two.

And then here, you can access Role.ADMIN,

like on an object, you access your identifier.

And you can use that anywhere else in your code as well,

here we can check if the role is AUTHOR,

and then print author and of course, we shouldn't see that

if I run that now because we assigned a role of ADMIN here.

But the key takeaway is that we did all of that

with the help of the enum, which assigns labels to numbers.

If we have a look at that in JavaScript.

So in the compiled code, we see this is how it's rebuilt.

In the end, it's rebuilt with an if here.

So function which executes itself.

And Role here simply is managed as an object in the end,

which has admin property a read only property

and AUTHOR property, where we then store

our number values here, you could say.

So it's a bit more complex than that, but that's what

TypeScript in the end does here to replicate

this enum construct in JavaScript code,

when it compiles the code.

Here as a developer, we simply have

these conveniently created numbers.

If you hover over them, you'll see the number

which we'll store it in there and you can use

these numbers here in a human readable way.

Now for enums, you're also not restricted

to the default behavior.

Let's say for some reason, you don't want to start with zero

as a starting number, then you can add an equal sign here

after your identifier and enter any other number

and now admin is assigned to the number five

and the other identifiers after the identifier

where you assign the value, pick up on that,

and simply increment this starting value.

So now we have fine, six, seven, instead of zero, one, two.

You of course, also can assign your own values

to all these identifiers, if you need your own numbers.

You're also not restricted to numbers,

you can also go with text here, or even mix it

like I'm doing it here, anything goes there,

but often the default of incrementing numbers

that start at zero is what you want, but if you need

a different behavior, if you want to use a string in here,

and then a number here, and here a number as well

or maybe a number string, then you can absolutely

do that, the advantage is, you define it up there,

and then thereafter, you always just refer to your Role type

to this custom type you created,

to this custom enum you created.

And you use that in your if checks

and your type assignments, and you're good.

That's the power of the enum and it's a great construct

whenever you need identifiers that are human readable

and have some mapped value behind the scenes.

