So this enum feature can be really useful
if you have a set number of choices you want to use
in your code.
There also is an alternative to using an enum though,
which arguably is a bit more popular.
So you might find enums in certain code bases,
but there also are developers who try to avoid them.
In the end, it comes down to personal preferences,
but it's important to know
about the arguably more popular alternative to enums.
So instead of defining such a role enum here,
so instead of using that,
you could also use a union type here
for the userRole variable
combined with another TypeScript feature
you haven't learned about yet: literal types.
Because in TypeScript you cannot just set up
general types like number or string, you could say,
but you can also define very specific values as types.
For example, you could set the string admin
as a type for userRole.
Now this might look very weird
because this very much looks like a string value,
and it would be if it were on the right side
of the equal sign.
But here on the left side of the equal sign
after this colon, no matter if you're using it
on a variable or a parameter, in a function
or anywhere else, this thing here
is actually not a value but a type.
And it tells TypeScript that the allowed value
for userRole is this very specific string.
So if I were to store the string guest in there,
I would get an error that the type guest
is not assignable to this very specific string type.
Now you might wonder what the use of this
very specific string type is.
After all, this does not give us any flexibility at all.
Well, it gets more useful if you turn it into a union type
and you tell TypeScript that userRole
should either be the string admin or the string editor,
let's say, or the string guest.
Now we can initialize this to admin,
but later on, instead of using an enum,
we can change it to guest.
And I'm even getting auto-completion in my IDE here
because it understands which options we have.
And that's another very convenient way
of working with options.
And as mentioned, it's arguably more popular
in the TypeScript community than using an enum.
But you can use both alternatives
for many of the same problems,
and it comes down to personal preference as mentioned.
But it's definitely a very elegant way
of defining different options
for a certain variable or parameter.
You're also not limited to just strings.
Instead, you might recall that earlier I mentioned
that we could be a bit more specific
when working with this tuple here,
where I wanted to accept two numbers.
Well, at the moment here in this code,
I do enforce possible results to be an array
with exactly two elements, where both elements are numbers,
but any kind of numbers would be allowed,
not just one and minus one.
Well, now with our newly gained knowledge
about literal types, we can fine-tune this code.
So I'll bring it over to the choices.ts file
and I'll refind this tuple.
And I'll do that by changing number to a literal type
where I say that the first element in this tuple
should be either one or minus one,
because when dealing with literal types,
you are not limited to just strings,
you can use numbers as well.
A literal type in the end is really just a type
where you set very specific values as types.
Typically, you use this feature
in combination with union types
so that you don't enforce one very specific value,
but you instead give the developer multiple options.
So here for example, it would be one
and minus one for both elements.
Therefore, possible results can still be written like this.
But if I were to add a five here, I'd get an error.
And that's another use case where literal types
combined with this union types feature
can be extremely helpful.
