So we covered
a couple of the core types TypeScript knows.
Now let's move on.
For that, I'll rename app.ts here
to objs-arrays-enums,
or whatever you want to name it,
basically so that we still have that file,
but I'll create a brand new app.ts file
so that we have an empty file again
in which we can work.
Now in this file, I want to dive into
another interesting type that you'll find in TypeScript.
And that's the union type.
Now what's that?
Let's come back to our add function,
which we wrote earlier,
I'll copy that and move them to app.ts.
Get rid of that comment here,
and here on add, let's close basics.ts
so that we get rid of that error.
Here in add, I now want to be more flexible
regarding what we accept here.
I will also get rid of showResult and phrase,
I don't need that.
And the only thing I want to do
is I want to calculate a result and return it.
But I want to be more flexible regarding the inputs.
Previously, we made sure that we only work with numbers.
Now let's say we actually name this combine
and it should work with both numbers and strings.
Because it turns out we can combine
both numbers and strings with this plus operator,
the only difference is that in one scenario,
we get back a number as a result,
in the other scenario we get a concatenated string,
as we actually already saw early on this module.
But now I want to allow this behavior,
because you could have an application
where you want to have a flexible combination function
that does work with numbers and strings.
Therefore I will also name this input1 here,
and this input2, and combine these two now.
But we will have one problem of course,
right now we set both parameters to be numbers.
This means that we can call this function,
as long as we do want to work with numbers.
Let's say down there,
we're creating a new constant, combinedAges.
And there I call combine
and pass in 30 and 26 here as ages
in whatever application we're building.
Another after console log combinedAges,
well it shouldn't be too surprising
that if we now compile this file here,
and we then reload this page, we get 56.
So this works, we get this number.
But of course, we have a problem
if we try to create a string here.
CombinedNames, for example.
If I try to combine Max and Anna here,
then well, we immediately get an error here
that Max is not assignable to type number
because this, of course, is a string.
Now of course, we could change this
to accept strings instead of numbers,
but now the first function call would fail.
And that is where union types can help us.
If we have some place in our application,
be that a parameter of a function
or a constant or a variable we're using somewhere,
where we accept two different kinds of values.
Well then, a union type can help us.
To tell TypeScript that we are fine
with either a number or a string,
we use number
and then the pipe symbol here,
and then the other type we also accept.
And you can have more than two types,
you can accept as many types here as you need.
So here, I only need two though,
and that's the afforded type assignment
I will go with, number or string.
Now I get an error here,
that the plus operator cannot be applied
to types string or number and string or number.
That's actually not entirely correct,
this should work, because we can use the plus operator
with both numbers and with strings.
But TypeScript only sees that we have a union type here,
and it doesn't analyze what's in the union type,
it just sees, "Okay, you're expecting multiple types.
Maybe that includes types
where I can't use the plus operator,
hence I will complain here."
Now thankfully, we can work around that issue though.
We can add our runtime type check here
and see if input1 typeof that
is equal to number
and if typeof input2 is equal to number,
and then move this calculation in there,
now just one improvement,
let's create result as a variable outset of that if check,
because of lock scoping,
so that this is a variable available in the entire function,
and then just assign a new value in there.
So now here we check if we do have two numbers.
And therefore TypeScript knows that in here,
input1 and input2 both will be numbers.
Now let's add a else check here.
And there we can set result equal to input1.tostring,
explicitly converting this to a string,
and input2.tostring.
And this will then also be fine
for TypeScript and JavaScript,
because we can concatenate two strings.
So now we have almost the same calculation,
but we made clear that here,
we'll always work with numbers,
here we'll always work with strings,
and then we return the result.
And now with that, if we console log
the combined names down there,
and we compile this file,
we'll see that once we revisit our page,
we got the combined numbers there,
which were simply added together
and hence we get a number as a result,
and two combined names here.
So this is how we can use union types to be more flexible
regarding what we do in a function, for example,
or anywhere else in our code.
This extra runtime type check will not always be required
when you work with union types,
but often will be because with union types,
you can be more flexible in, for example,
the parameters you accept,
but then you might have different logic in your function
based on which exact type you are getting.
So that your function is able to work
with multiple types of values
but that it then does slightly different things
depending on the type you're getting.
So often, you might need such a runtime check
when working with union types,
but you'll not always need it.
You will certainly also encounter situations
in TypeScript programs where you can use a union type
without a runtime type check.
It really depends on the logic you're writing.
