So, now, we got union types here.
Let's build up on that idea of union types
and also introduce Literal types.
Literal types are types where you don't just say
that a certain variable or a parameter
should hold, let's say a number or a string,
but where you are very clear
about the exact value it should hold.
We saw that early already here in basics.
Const number two, for example.
There, if I hover over that you see the type which was
inferred is not number it's 2.8.
And types group did infer
this concrete number as a type here because it's a constant.
It will never change and therefore types group knows the
value I assigned here is the exact type I have. So ofcourse
this is a number, you could say 2.8 is derived from the
number type but it's a specific number. And this
does not just exist for numbers, but also for strings and
so on. And especially for strings, it can be very useful.
Let's say here in our combined function, we expect numbers
or strings and we combine them differently based on what
we get but we also want to allow the caller of the function
to define how the result should be returned so that we can
basically force a conversion from number to string or
the other way around. We could do this with the third
parameter and we could name that let's say result type or
result conversion or however you want to name it and
I want to describe this with a string. So I'll set this
to type string. Now my idea is that I can call combine here
with two numbers and for example pass in a string of
"as-number" and it's totally up to you which identifier
you use here. Down there we might have "as-text" but then
we might have another combination here
CombinedStringAges where I pass in two strings but
I still want to output this "as-number" and this would
be a case where the third parameter can be helpful to
force a conversion because if I pass in two strings here
normally we would make it into this else branch and
concatenate it and I might want to return this as a number
instead so that I can also console log combined string
agents here. So now we just have to take these identifiers
into account in our function by including resultConversion
in our if checks. Now the question is what exactly do we
want to do; do we want to make sure that we can force these
two strings to be added as numbers or do we want to
force the result no matter if it was a mathematical
calculation or a string concatenation to be converted to
a text or a number. If we want to force a conversion
we could add the if check here and check if result
conversion is equal to "as-number" and if that's the case
I want to return result with a plus infront of it
which converts it to a number, the alternative would be
parseFloat for example
but here I'll just go for the plus
since this is a bit shorter and else I want to return result
toString to force an output as a string.
So now we do the calculation abased on the real type we get
but then we convert to result that's one way of doing that
and if we save that and we then compile this file, we see
this is the result I get and we get that output for example
for our string combination here because as I said,
the combination itself the calculation so to say is
performed based on the type we feed in which here is string
so we concatenate it and then we just convert to result.
The alternative logic would be to check the type here
and do a different operation based on the return type we're
specifying here. So we could comment this out and instead
here say if the type of input one is number and the type
of input two is number, or
if resultConversion is equal to
"as-number" then I want to combine values like this and
now to avoid this error, here I force the conversion
to numbers by adding a plus infront of each input
so that each input is converted to a number and is
guaranteed to be a number before I combine them.
Side note: if you would pass in strings that can't be
converted to a number, so something like Max for example,
then you'll get an NaN, Not a Number as a result.
Well then in the else case,
so that we don't have "as-number", or that we simply
don't have number inputs, then we make it into this block
here and now with that if I return result again here,
and then we then save this and recompile, we'll see
a different output on our page. Now we get 56 in these
two lines here because now we're not converting the result,
so we're not converting the concatenated string for this
line but instead we're doing the conversion before
we combine the two values. So that's up to you which
logic you want to implement. I actually want to have a
closer look at the literal types concept which I described
at the beginning of this lecture. I'm passing an "as-number"
and "as-text" and the downs of a business that right now
we as a developer have to memorize these values.
We have to make sure that we don't miss type here.
Now we could use a e-num to improve that but if we only
have two values here, "as-text" or "as-number", then maybe
all the search a literal type could be an option.
We could say "this shouldn't be any string, it should be
"as-number" or "as-text""
so we use a union type combined
with literal types. Literal types are the the types
which are based on your core types string, number
and so on but then you then have a specific version
of the type. So here, we allow specifically these
two strings not any string just these two strings.
So we want a string for result conversion, but it has to
be one of these two values. Any other string value
will not be allowed, so that's the idea behind a literal
type and often you will use this in the context of the union
type because you don't just want to allow one exact value
you could hard code it into your code if that would be
the case but you want to have two or more possible values.
In this case we got two possible values.
So now we're guaranteed to get result conversion which is
either "as-number" or "as-text" and for example here,
If I now try to compare this to as-numbe because I have a
typo here, types group is able to tell me here in the IDE
and ofcourse all that we save it and compile it
here in the terminal because it knows that as-numbe without
an r at the end will never be a valid value for
resultConversion because I set this union type with
these literal types.
So now we again gained some extra
type safety and ensure we can't use this incorrectly.
The same ofcourse for passing in a value. If we have a typo
here, we get an error only if we use either "as-number" or
"as-text" we're allowed to compile this as you see it
and now compile this, this works and we get the same output
as before here. So these are literal types especially useful
when used in conjunction with union types.
