So you can use types for function parameters
and for the return value
of the function.
Now, to take it to the next level,
what if their also were a function type itself.
Now let me make it clear what I mean.
Let's say we have a variable 'combinevalues'
and this variable by default has a type of 'any.'
Now as you learned, 'any' is not that useful.
What I wanna do eventually is, I want to set
'combinevalues' equal to 'add.'
So I wanna store that 'add' function,
a pointer at this 'add' function,
in 'combinevalues'
so that in the end, we can console log,
combine values, and execute 'combinevalues'
as a function to which it has 8 and 8.
Now if I save that, and I execute this,
after compiling it,
so I've compiled this file and then we let this reload,
we get 16 here.
So, that works, and we would expect it to work because
that is normal JavaScript code.
We can store a pointer at a function,
in a number variable, and then the offer
execute this variable as a function,
because, well, it points
at the function, right?
So we can execute that function, through that variable.
The problem we have with this snippet here from a
TypeScript perspective, just is that 'combinevalues'
is any.
So if I set 'combinevalues' to a number here thereafter,
of course, we can't compile this unfortunately
because TypeScript has no chance of detecting that
this is unwanted or that this could cause a problem.
But a run time, it would get an error
because obviously we tried to execute 'combinevalues'
as function, when it actually is a number.
Now we want to avoid this, and for that we need to be clear
that 'combinevalues' will hold a function.
Now the first step into that direction,
is that we set the type here, to function.
Function is a type provided by TypeScript in the end,
and this makes it clear that whatever we store in here
has to be a function.
Therefore, here I'm getting an error, because 5 is a number
and not a function.
And if I comment this out, we can compile this,
otherwise we would get an error during compilation,
and now it is again runs as expected.
So this is good, but it's not perfect
because now we say this should be a function,
but it could also set 'combinevalues' equal to
'printResult' for example here.
And of course TypeScript would not complain because
'printResult' is a function, but of course it's not
a function that takes two arguments.
So again if I compile this, TypeScript will not complain.
But if we reload we see undefined here and Result 8.
So I don't get the result I want because I stored
the wrong function in there.
Again, it would be nice if TypeScript would tell us
about that.
TypeScript can't inform us about this because all we said
to TypeScript is that we want to store a function there
and this is clearly the case.
So it would be good if we could be more precise regarding
how the function should look like that we want to store
in 'combinevalues.'
And that's where function types come in to play.
Function types are types that describe a function
regarding the parameters and the return value
of that function.
A function type is created with this arrow function
notation you know from JavaScript
or at least close to that notation.
You don't add curly braces here because we aren't
creating an arrow function here, we are creating
a function type instead.
Now on the right side of this arrow,
you specify the return type of the function you eventually
want to be able to store in here.
That should be number.
Now with that we're saying, 'combinevalues' accepts
any function that takes no parameters and then
returns a number.
Now, that's of course not entirely what we want.
We want to make sure that 'combinevalues' takes a function
or is able to store functions that take 2 numbers
and return a number.
And for that we can add parameters here to this
function type.
We don't have to match the parameters names from up there,
just types.
So we could have a which should of type number and b
which should be of type number.
And now what we are saying to TypeScript is that
'combinevalues' should accept any function that takes
two parameters
where each parameter is a number, and where the function
overall then returns a number.
And that's why TypeScript does not complain about us
storing 'add' in combine values, because 'add'
is a function that perfectly satisfies this type definition.
But it does complain about 'printResult' because
'printResult' as it tells us here, is a function of type
one argument which is a number, nothing is returned,
where as we actually expect to get a function with
two arguments where each argument is a number
and we also return a number.
So we have a mismatch here, and if I would try to
compile this, we therefore would get an error here,
of course,
in the compiler, and we only can fix this by removing
this line of code.
Now we are able to recompile this without errors.
And now this runs as expected.
So function types, allow us to describe
which type of function specifically
we want to use somewhere.
Be that an expected value in a parameter,
for create a function with some call back,
or, like here, a variable.
