Now speaking of callbacks and function types,

there it works pretty much in the same way.

Let's say we have a new function up there

addAndHandle, let's say.

There we expect to get two numbers

and then I also want to get a callback function here.

So a function which is passed and is a argument

that should do something with the result,

then here we could generate the result, of course.

But not only returning it,

but instead I want to call the callback function

and pass in result.

Now for that, I want to be really clear

that callback should be a function.

So again, I'm using that function type definition

that maybe does not return anything

but it does take a number as an argument

because we're passing it a number here.

So the callback function,

the function we're passing into this function as a parameter

should accept a number.

Now down there, we would call addAndHandle,

pass in 10 and 20 and then pass in a function.

For example, an anonymous function here.

So now here, when we call the function,

this is of course, not a function type

but a concrete value we're passing in

for this third argument.

So, this now here is an anonymous function creating here

and there we know we'll get a number.

Maybe name it result here

and then we can do with it whatever we want.

And now if you compile this,

we see this log down there, 30,

which is the result of our callback function

which we passed to addAndHandle

where addAndHandle combines to two numbers

and then calls the callback

where the callback has to meet this condition here.

The advantage of us defining the callback function

definition here is that inside of the function we pass

it is a callback types that is able to infer

that result will be a number

and hence we could do anything with result here.

What we could do with a number

without explicitly stating the type here

because TypeScript knows the result will be a number

because we made it really clear

that the callback will get one argument

which is a number.

Hence, if we would expect a second argument here

in the callback,

we'd get an error because we know

well, the callback we expect in our addAndHandle function

only should have one argument.

So if we then pass in a callback function

which takes a second argument,

that clearly is a mistake.

The only thing TypeScript does not pick up

is if we return something here.

If a return result and the callback does return something,

even though we made it clear

that it shouldn't return anything.

This however, is not a mistake or a bug in TypeScript.

It actually happens on purpose.

By specifying void here on our callback type,

we're essentially saying we'll ignore any results

you might be returning here.

So we're basically saying in addAndHandle,

where we get that callback function,

we'll not do anything with the return type.

That's why you'll be able to return something here

without punishment but you know,

because it's clearly defined here on the callback type,

that the callback will not do anything

with the value you might return here.

So that addAndHandle inside of the function

will not do anything with that value

you might be returning.

And that's of course a useful piece of information.

You might expect that in here,

we're doing something with the value returned

by the callback, and by specifying this type here,

we make it really clear that inside of addAndHandle

we're not interested in any return value.

So this does not force you to pass in a callback

that does not return anything.

It just tells you that anything you might return

will not be used.

For the parameters, it's of course different.

There this is enforced

because here it really matters that you know

if you're passing a callback that expects more parameters.

Well, then you'll get an error

or you'll not get the result you want

because I only give you one result.

So there we can't just ignore what you might want

as it's the case for the return type.

We ignore that here for passing something in

where the addAndHandle function is responsible for that

because that's where the callback gets called.

This is why parameters are enforced

and TypeScript is really strict

regarding the number and type of parameters

of callback functions and why it doesn't really care

about the return type.

