The last interesting type
I want to show in this module is the never type.
Now we saw a function that returned void.
So that never returns anything.
Never is another type functions can return.
And that might sound strange.
Let's have a look at how it works.
Let's say we have a function generateError.
Here I expect to get a message, which is a string,
and maybe some error code, which might be a number.
Now inside of this functions, let's say,
we throw an error.
So this should essentially be a utility function
that generates error objects and throws them.
So here we might throw an object,
which we can do in JavaScript.
We can throw any object or any value as an error,
and that should have a message property,
in which I store the value of my message argument here.
And I want to have a error code property,
let's say erase the word, the code argument in .
So it is with the invalid function,
and we can call this with an error occurred,
for example, and a code of 500.
If we do that, and we compile this file here,
we see that once this reloads we get our error,
well as an error here.
And this might sound pretty abstract,
but actually, it isn't.
Having utility functions like this
would be pretty standard in bigger applications
where you don't manually want to throw an error
in 10 different places of your app,
and where you want to reach out to one convenient function
that builds the error object for you
and maybe also throws it immediately,
so that you can call this function with different inputs
but you always have an error being thrown.
Now the interesting thing about this function is,
it does not just return void.
I actually can specify that it returns void,
because of course returns nothing,
but actually it does not just return nothing,
if we are totally honest, this function returns never.
This function never produces a return value.
If I were to try to restore the return value here,
in a console log result,
and I then compile my code in this execute,
we see there is no undefined being logged here,
because since an error is thrown,
this essentially crashes our script, you could say.
It cancels our script.
And this will always be the case for this function.
Of course we can wrap it in try catch
so that we can still continue in this script,
but this function essentially never produces a value.
This function always crashes the script
or this part of the script,
if you are using try catch,
and therefore never returns anything.
And hence the return type of this function
actually is not just void, but also never.
Now the interesting thing is,
if you hover over it without assigning never,
you see the inferred type is void.
Alls because never is a newer type,
it's been around for some time now,
but it wasn't built into the first versions of TypeScript,
and therefore void is typically assumed,
and it's not horrible to leave it at that.
But you can be very clear
and explicitly set never as the return type
to make it really clear that this never returns anything.
So from a code-quality perspective,
this might be clearer regarding your intentions
and make it really clear
to our developers reading your code
that this function is intended to never return anything,
and to essentially crash or break your script,
or that part of the script.
Another function that would never return,
by the way, would be a function with an infinite loop.
So if we have while (true) in there,
that creates an infinite loop,
and that therefore also would be a function
that never returns.
The error function here,
or the function that generates a frozen error
probably is the more common use-case, though.
So never, also an interesting type,
which you can use on functions
for cases like this one here.
