Now when dealing with literal types combined

with union types,

so when dealing with options like this here,

you can end up with quite long type definitions,

which can especially become a problem

if you want to use the same type definition

in different places in your code.

Let's say we have a function access here,

which expects to get the role of a user as a parameter,

and then it does something.

Now of course, we probably want to accept a role parameter,

which has the same type as user role.

So of course we can copy this union type,

which uses these three literal type values here

and assign it here.

But as you know, when writing code,

copy and pasting is often not the best idea,

because if we now change one of these options,

or if we add a fourth option here, like reader,

then we would have to do the same down here.

And it's easy to forget something here

and to introduce subtle bugs,

and it's also simply some unnecessary work.

That's why TypeScript also allows us

to create so-called type aliases

or custom types as I also like to call them.

You can use the type keyword which is offered by TypeScript,

so which is not a JavaScript keyword,

just like enum, which also comes from TypeScript.

And you can use this type keyword to create a custom type,

a type alias, like for example, role.

I used the same name before for my enum,

but since I commented out this code,

I can use it again here.

And now you can use an equal sign here

to store a type definition under that alias.

So now even though we're on the right side

of the equal sign here,

we're still setting up a type definition

due to this type keyword

because the entire purpose

of this type keyword is to allow us

to store a type definition under a custom name.

And this is an extremely useful feature

when dealing with union types.

You could theoretically also store the built-in number type

under your own custom name,

but this would probably not make too much sense.

But you could do that as well just so that you know.

But when dealing with long, complex types,

which you also might want to use

in different places in your code,

this type alias feature really shines

because now you can use your custom type name,

role, here in all the places where you use that type.

So here for that variable.

And also here for this role parameter in my axis function.

I can easily define this type once

and then reuse that type definition

in all the places where I need it.

So this is another extremely important TypeScript feature,

which you'll very likely use a lot.

It can also be useful when dealing with object types

because those can also become quite complex.

And here you could simply define a user type,

which stores an object type definition,

where every user might have a name and an age

and a role, which is of my role type, let's say.

And then maybe a list of permissions,

which could be simply an array of strings.

Now, this user type is stored under the name user,

and you can easily use this complex object type

in all the places you want by simply using this user type.

That's another common use case

for using this type alias feature.

And therefore,

it's another feature you definitely should know,

and now you do.

