So this is now how we can

manage multiple files with TypeScript.

Now, one word about having multiple files,

when you work with multiple files as we're doing it here,

you can also import them into each other with modules,

which you might know from vanilla JavaScript,

there we have modules as well, it is something

I'll cover in a dedicated section of this course though,

so for now, we just have two files

which are not imported into each other,

but which are instead imported into index.html.

Now with that out of the way though,

we know that we can manage this as a project

and that we can compile multiple files here.

Now let's have a look at the tsconfig.json file

because this is a crucial file for managing this project,

it essentially tells TypeScript

how it should compile these files.

Now, before we dive into the compilerOptions where we,

as the name suggests,

can configure how the compiler behaves,

let's scroll down to the place

before the closing curly brace

but after this nested closing curly brace,

and let's see some of the options

we can add here which don't effect the compiler

or the compilation step behavior,

but instead how the compiler works with this project,

because there for example, you can set a exclude option.

Now if you add exclude here, that will be an array,

and what you can enter here are paths to files

which should not be included in compilation

when you run TSC on the entire project.

So for example, here we could say

we want to exclude analytics.ts from compilation,

and of course, this doesn't make much sense here,

but just to show how this works.

If we do that and we now rerun tsc,

and I first of all delete analytics.js

so that we can see if it is recreated,

if we now run tsc or tsc in watch mode,

you see no analytics.js file is created,

and the reason for that is that we're excluding that file.

Now of course for this file,

this doesn't make a lot of sense

because I typically want to include it,

but if you had a file that for some reason

shouldn't be compiled, you can exclude it like this.

You can also work with wildcards,

and for example, if you had a file

that's named analytics.dev.ts

and you don't really wanna compile that,

you could say all files that end dev.ts

should not be compiled, and you can do that

by also adding an asterisk here,

which is a wildcard basically,

and now TypeScript will ignore any files

that have .dev.ts included.

You could also add asterisk, asterisk, slash here,

and that would mean any file with that pattern

in any folder will be ignored.

So these are things you can set up here,

the only thing I want to set up here,

and that is a setting that you will often find,

is that I want to exclude node_modules,

and the idea here is that I don't want to compile

any TypeScript files I might have inside of node_modules.

Now, node_modules is that folder

that holds all the dependencies

we install here in package.json

and the dependencies of these dependencies,

and therefore, these are third-party libraries

we're importing, which we don't wanna touch,

and if any of these libraries

should ship some TypeScript code,

then we certainly don't want to compile it,

it will just slow down our compilation process,

and in the worst case, it might even break our project.

So therefore, it's quite common

to exclude node_modules here, though I will say,

if you don't specify the exclude option at all,

node_modules is automatically excluded as a default setting,

so you don't really need to add this option here,

this would be the default, I just want to show

that exclude exists and how you could use it

if the only thing you want to exclude is node_modules,

you don't have to add the exclude key at all.

If you do add it though, you should set node_modules

because otherwise, it will not exclude that.

Now besides exclude, we also have include,

and include allows you to do the opposite,

it allows you to specifically tell TypeScript

which files you wanna include in the compilation process,

and anything that's not listed here will not compiled,

so if I point at app.ts here, you'll see if I rerun tsc,

we also will get no analytics.ts file,

or no analytics.js file I should say.

Why?

Because analytics.js is not included in include,

and as I said, if we do set the include key,

then we really have to include

everything we want to compile.

So of course here, we could then also add analytics.ts here,

and with that addition, we would start and compile it,

as you see now, we have the analytics.js file,

or as an alternative, we specify a whole folder here

which typically holds the files we want to compile.

Exclude by the way, if set alongst include

will filter down include,

so if we exclude some sub-folder of a folder

that is part of include,

then that excluded sub-folder will be excluded,

so basically we compile include minus exclude.

Now of course here, I don't want to set include,

I want to compile all TypeScript files,

and therefore I don't have to worry about that,

excluding node_modules is all I need,

and as I explained, theoretically

I don't even need to add that

because that would be excluded by default.

Now you also have a files option,

this allows you to point at the individual files,

so it's a bit like include with the difference that here

you can't specify whole folders which you want to include,

instead you really just specify

the individual files you want to compile,

that might be a option for smaller projects

where you know you will only work with free files,

and for some reason you got

a couple of other TypeScript files

which you don't want to touch though,

then you can set the list of files like this.

In reality, you might not need

that setting that often though.

And therefore, that's it with the basic compilation

or project management options here.So now that we have a understanding

of how we can manage our files with the compiler,

let's dive into the compiler options,

because that's really interesting.

This allows us to control

how our TypeScript code is compiled,

so not only which files,

but also how the files which are getting compiled

are treated by TypeScript.

And there you see we have a bunch of options.

You got short explanations next to these options.

Some explanations arguably are a big cryptic.

Others are quite clear.

And I will say that a lot of these options,

most of these options will not matter in most projects.

So, you'll not set all of these options, not even close.

You typically can ignore a lot of these options.

Now I will pick up on the important options here

throughout this course,

because some options only make sense

when we learn about a certain feature.

And I want to dive into some options

right now already though.

And for that, let's go through the file from top to bottom

and see what we got there.

Let's start with the target option.

As you see, this actually is set by default.

It's not commented out.

And what you do with this option

is you tell TypeScript for which target JavaScript version

you want to compile the code.

Because what TypeScript does is

it does not just compile new features

like the type annotations

that don't exist in JavaScript to JavaScript code.

So it does not just take care that

this here works.

It also compiles the code to JavaScript

that runs in a certain set of browsers.

And you basically define which browsers

support the compile code by setting the target.

The default target here in this project as you see,

the initial target which is getting set up is es5,

which means all types of code is compiled down.

We can actually see that.

If I run TSC here to compile all my files,

we see in app.ts I'm using let and const,

but in app.js, we se var.

And that happens because we got a target of es5

and in es5 world, we don't have let and const.

So the good thing here is that we can use TypeScript

to generate code that works in older browsers as well.

But it's totally up to use if we want to do that.

Maybe we don't want to do that with TypeScript,

because maybe we got some other build tool

that will then take care about the JavaScript transpilation

and therefore we don't want to have TypeScript do that,

or maybe we wanna ship code

that only works in modern browsers

because we know our app only will run in modern browsers.

And therefore, alternative options can be seen here

if you delete the value

and then here in vscode at least,

if you hit Control + Space to get the auto-completion,

you see a bunch of suggestions

and you see all available values here.

Now over time, this of course will change

because we have got new JavaScript versions released.

You saw we set this to es5 before.

If you don't specify target at all,

then right now, TypeScript compiles to es3 even,

so it supports an even older version.

But you can also go with es6, which is more modern,

which, for example, supports const and let

or take an even more recent version,

es6 is equivalent to es2015, just for the record.

So if we set this to es6, for example,

and I rerun the tsc command

after changing the tsconfig.json file,

you will see that now in app.js, we got let and const,

because now that is supported there.

So that is up to you.

Of course, the more modern

of a JavaScript version you pick here,

the more concise your generated code is

because TypeScript has to compile less and less code,

or it has to work around non-existing features

in less situations, and therefore,

the compiled code typically is done

more concise and shorter.

So that's target.

What about the other options?



Now of course, there is way more we can specify though,

way more we can specify about the compiler itself

and how it behaves during the compilation step.

