At this point,
we already had a brief first look
at functions and TypeScript.
Specifically, we had a look at function parameters,
and you learned that you can also set an explicit type
for those, but that you can, for example,
also rely on type inference for those.
Now I wanna dive a little bit deeper
into functions in TypeScript
because there is a bit more you should know about them.
And for that, let's start simple again.
Let's create a add function.
And let's say that just as earlier in the course,
we wanna accept two parameters here.
Now, as you learned, you can
and typically should assign types to these parameters
unless you have an initial value
from which the type can be inferred.
But if you don't have that, which often will be the case,
you should set a type to get that good TypeScript support.
Otherwise, it will be of type any,
and that's rarely what you want.
So here I'll again go with two numbers,
and then, of course, I can simply return the result
of adding these two numbers.
Now, what's interesting to note here
and what you should know
is that you can also add a type assignment
in another place on this function here.
You can add one after this parameter list,
after the closing parentheses,
before the opening curly brace here by adding a colon here.
And the type you add here will then be the return value type
of that function.
So here we have the parameter value types,
here it's the return value type of that function.
And here I'm setting this to number
because, of course, if I add two numbers,
I'm creating a new number.
And since that's what I return,
this function returns a number.
If I would convert this to string, I would get an error here
because now I'm returning a number in a place
where a string is expected to be returned.
Now, for many functions, you don't need
to add this return type though
because TypeScript can infer it.
After all, it sees what you're returning here
and it sees that this will be a number.
So it infers that the add function has a return type number.
You can also see that if you hover over your function.
Here you see the complete inferred type of that function,
which includes the parameter types and also the return type.
So in many cases, you don't need to set it,
but since you will see it out there in certain projects,
and since there are situations
where you do need to specify it,
and we'll see an example for that
in one of the next lectures,
you should know about this return type notation,
even though as mentioned, in most cases, you can omit it.
