We can't ignore isolated modules
but there is one other option,
which is actually not even mentioned here,
which I still want to mention myself though.
And that's the no emit on error option.
You can set this to true or false
and the default is false.
Now what does this do?
If we set it to false, let me show you
where this might be a problem.
It is a problem if we introduce an error
or it can be a problem.
Let's say here, I do have my button
and I remove this exclamation mark.
Now even though we don't fully understand what's going on
the problem here is simply is that TypeScript does not know
that we certainly have a button here.
After all, when querying for a button
we might not get one if there is no element in the DOMs
that's satisfying this selector
then this will return now.
And that's basically what TypeScript complains about.
Here we access something on a potential null object
and that's not good.
Now that's an error we have here.
If we compile our code, we also get this error
here in the console.
Nonetheless, the file is created.
So even if I delete the app.jsfile it will be recreated.
So even if we have an error,
TypeScript creates a JavaScript file.
This might or might not be wanted.
Maybe you have an error in your TypeScript file
and you don't really know how to work around it
but you know it will not be a problem in the final app.
Like here, even if we don't know about the exclamation mark.
Well if we don't know about the exclamation mark
we might not know how to disable this error, basically.
But still we know that this will work in our page here.
So we might be fine with compiling this
despite having an error.
But, of course, in reality you should aim
for error free projects and rather learn
how you can work around this issue than ignore it.
Nonetheless, you could set this to false
or not set it at all, because false is the default,
if you are fine with generating JavaScript files
if you have an error.
If you set this to true, however,
what will happen is that problematic files
will not be generated.
If I now rerun this...
You see, nothing is generated actually.
Even the analytics.ts file is not output there
if we have some content in there
besides console.log, you see it's not getting generated.
And the reason for that is
that we have an error in the file.
And if any file fails to compile no files
will be omitted.
So here, therefore, we have to make sure
we fix this error before we then can get TypeScript
to again compile files for us.
And, therefore, it is an option I typically like to set
because I'm not interested in getting JavaScript files
if I still have errors in my TypeScript files.
