So now that we have

a properly configured project,

let's dive a bit deeper into how you can debug your project

or how you can have a great development flow.

I show you my basic IDE set up at the beginning

of this course.

Really make sure you got the right extensions installed.

There for TypeScript, it comes down to ESLint

which can help you with linting your TypeScript code.

So with improving the code quality

though you might need additional configuration

for ESLint to have an effect.

It can help you in more advanced projects still

more interesting than that,

you wanna really use Prettier

to automatically format your code

and have a nicely formatted code

and you might wanna give Debugger for Chrome a try

because that allows you to debug your TypeScript files

even from inside VS Code

through Chrome but without using the Chrome Dev Tools.

Of course, you can use those as well

as you learned.

If you do enable sourceMaps here,

which you can of course, always do,

you get these translated files there as well

which is really nice.

But you can also use VS Code.

You can place breakpoints here,

let's say in the clickHandler

and now to launch your files here

through VS Code, you need to enable sourceMaps as well

but we still will be able to use VS Code

instead of the browser Dev Tools.

So enable sourceMaps, place your breakpoint

and then go to Debug, Start Debugging.

Now, the first time you run this,

it should ask you for the environment

and there with that Debugger for Chrome extension installed,

you should be able to choose Chrome.

It will now go to a laucnh.json file

where you configure how it should launch that

and there you should point it at localhost:3000

because that's where our development server is running

and of course, that process, so the npm start process

should be up and running.

To point at localhost:3000 there

and as a webRoot, you can leave that placeholder here

which means this project folder

is assumed to be the host of your files

which is the case and now compile your code

so that the sourceMaps also are generated

after setting the sourceMaps config to true

so that we now have these in the JavaScript code.

Then with your breakpoint added here

and your launch.json configured,

let's run debugging here.

Start debugging now for real

and it will open up a new tab now automatically.

This tab will be closed

whenever you quit the debugging process

or if you close the tab, the debugging process will quit.

So now with that, you enter this debugging view here

in VS Code where you can track variables,

watch certain expressions

and see the current call stack

and if you now click on Click Me,

you should be taken back into the editor

and code execution pauses

at your breakpoint in the TypeScript file

and now you can walk through the file her,

inspect local values for this keyword

or for the message variable, for example,

script-wide variables you might have

and global variables you got access to global objects.

You can watch certain expressions

like message + multiple exclamation marks

and well, then you can always track the value

which is in there here in this window if you wanted to

so that would work.

And you can see the current function call stack,

for example, that would occur in the clickHandler

and now you can step through your code

with these controls to step to the next step,

skipping over the next function call,

stepping into the function call

or stepping out of the current function call

and the call stack, of course, here will adjust according

to that and with that,

can ignore this browser thing here,

with that, you can always resume code execution

by clicking the play button

and only pause whenever you reach

your breakpoint the next time.

So this is how you can debug code.

You can remove a breakpoint by clicking on it.

This is how you can debug code

from inside VS Code

with the help of the built-in debugging tools,

the Chrome Debugger extension,

derived configuration and soureMaps

which are set up in your TypeScript config.

