To understand classes let's understand
object oriented programming.
Now, depending on your level of knowledge
and if you worked with modern JavaScript
and maybe also some other programming languages,
you might be aware of what classes are there for
and what OOP object oriented programming is all about.
So therefore you can also skip this lecture
to jump right ahead to the parts where we write code.
Otherwise definitely stick with me
because it is important to understand this.
The idea behind object oriented programming
and classes will be important for that as you will see,
is that you work with real-life entities
in your code you could say.
So that you work with things in your code with objects
that resemble real-life objects as far as possible at least
to make it easier for you as a developer
to reason about your code.
For example, we might be building an online shop
and there we might have a product list.
We might wanna work with a product list object therefore,
which has everything we need to manage a product list.
A method to add products to the lead products,
the list itself.
So for example this might be an object
that is responsible for rendering a list of products
and for managing it,
which were fetched from a service or from a database.
So this product holds all the rendering and fetching
and management logic.
Now that's a product list.
In our program into website we're building,
we might also need to work
with the individual product though.
So we might also want an object or multiple objects;
one for each product
that is responsible for managing the single product.
It might hold and render the details about that product,
maybe allow us to add it to a cart,
things like that.
So when we want to draw user interface to the screen,
we wanna manage that through JavaScript
and therefore through TypeScript,
then we could implement this with product list
and a product object which holds the logic
for managing the underlying data,
but also for rendering the content on the screen.
And of course therefore these two objects
would kind of be related.
We might also have a shopping cart object on our screen,
which is responsible for rendering
and managing the shopping card.
It's of course also connected to the product.
And therefore it holds all the logic we need
to render our shopping card,
placing orders and communicating with the server
and so on.
So, that would be one way of how we could think
about the application we're building.
How we could split it into logical pieces
that make sense to us as humans.
And in code in TypeScript and JavaScript,
in most modern programming languages,
this is actively supported because we have objects
which are more complex data structures
that hold properties and methods.
And of course we do have that in JavaScript as well.
But we might also have classes that help us with that.
Now what's the idea behind classes?
And what are instances?
When we get these objects
and when following this object oriented approach,
we could consider splitting our app
or our application logic into such objects
which manage parts of our logic.
Now connected to the idea of using these objects
which of course do exist in JavaScript
we can use objects there as the idea of having classes.
Objects are the concrete things we work with in our code.
The data structures we use to store data
to store methods to execute methods on.
Classes are blueprints for objects.
Classes allow us to define how objects should look like;
which data they should hold,
which methods they should have,
so that we can easily build objects based on these classes.
And we then call this instances of the classes.
So an object then is an instance of a class
if it's based on such a class,
so that we can quickly replicate multiple objects
with the same structure the same methods
based on the same classes.
So classes help us define how objects should look like,
which properties and methods they have and so on.
So, classes exist to speed up the creation of objects.
And it's simply an alternative
to using the object literal notation you already know.
They simply make it easier.
Classes simply make it easier to create multiple objects
which generally have the same structure
and the same methods,
and which might only differ in the exact data details
which are stored in there.
Let's say we have multiple persons
we wanna represent with objects.
Well each person might have a name and an age,
the values will differ,
the general structure is the same.
So that's the theory.
Let's see it in practice.
