For this I got a

little starting project for you.

You find it attached.

It's the same starting project

we used over and over again.

You start the development server with npm-start

and then I started the TypeScript compilation in watch mode

with tsc-w in a separate terminal.

So here in my built-in terminal I got two tabs.

One with the development server

which you should keep up and running

so that it watches for changes

and reloads the page and keeps the server up and running

and another tab where I have that

running TypeScript compilation watcher.

Now with that we can work in the

app.ts file which is empty right now

and start writing some code there

and I want to start right away

by defining a class which we can use.

We do this by using the class keyword, just like that

and then the name of the class

and there let's say we're building an app,

a web application, a user interface

for some web tool that allows us to manage

our different departments we might have in our company.

Maybe we're building some kind of

company internal tool whatever it is

and we need to have multiple departments there.

Now we could use objects to manage

the data for the different departments

and we might then also add methods there to each object

so that we can render that department

information on to the screen

and to simplify the creation of these different

department objects which will all look the same,

is to create a department class.

So we could name this class Department.

The name is totally up to you.

The convention is that it starts with an uppercase character

to make it clear that this is a class.

Now if you've been around to JavaScript development

for a longer time you might know the idea

of constructor functions by the way

and classes in the end are syntactic

sugar for that you could say,

but we'll see that once we compile our code.

So here we have our class Department

and now in there we might have a name property.

You can add it just like this,

without any let or const in front of it

just like this, directly in the class

and then of course you can also assign a type to this.

You do that by adding a colon here

and then the type for example string and that's important.

This might look like an object but it isn't an object.

In an object you use key-value pairs

with a colon to have a key name

and then the value for the key.

Here that's not the case.

This is a so-called field of a class.

You create a class with curly braces as well

but here this is not a key-value pair,

this just defines the name of a

key you will have in the object

which you will create based on the class

and you define the value type that key will hold in the end.

You can also set an initial value here with the = 'DEFAULT'

but you don't need to do that.

Instead another thing you commonly have in classes

is a special function in there, a so-called method.

Functions in objects are simply called methods,

which is the constructor method.

We can add it like this and this is a reserved word.

Constructor is a reserved key word understood by TypeScript

and by modern JavaScript as well

and this is essentially a function tied to this class

and tied to any object you create based on the class

which is executed when the object is being created.

So this allows you to basically do some initialization work

for the object you're building.

Now in there you could accept an argument.

Let's name it n maybe which could also be of type string

and then you wanna store that in your name field here

or you can do this by reaching

out to name with the this keyword

and storing n in it.

What this does is it sets the value of the name field,

also called property so of the name property,

to the value you're getting on n

when a department object is created.

Now how could we create such a department object?

Nothing easier than that.

Outside of the class you created by using the new keyword

which is also built into TypeScript and JavaScript

and then you repeat the name of the class,

then you add parentheses

and this would create a new department object

but the constructor's called at this point of time

when you execute this class like this with the new keyword

and the constructor here takes an argument, a string.

Now you pass constructor arguments

to this department call here so between these parentheses.

So here we could name this Accounting

because maybe we're building the accounting department here.

Now this will now create a new

JavaScript object based on this blueprint.

So now we can store this in a constant for example

and then console.log.accounting here to see what we get.

If we now save that

and we then go back to our page here

and have a look at the development

console here in the def tools,

we should our Department object here.

It's a regular JavaScript object,

just has this Department type attached to it you could say

and in the end it's an object with

one key-value pair, where the key is name

because that's what we defined up there

and the value is Accounting.

We have this Accounting value here

because we're passing this

as an argument to the constructor.

There we are accepting such a string,

restoring the value in this field

and fields are in the end just translated to properties,

the object based on the class will have there after.

So this is how we can create a simple class

and what the general idea is.

Now let's see what we actually get in JavaScript.

