Now classes
and all the constructor functions which have been around
for longer do not just have properties which you can use
to define the general structure of the object.
You can also add methods.
We do actually do have the constructor method there.
But that's just a utility function,
which is called, when you do instantiate the class.
Remember, in the past, we only had constructor functions,
now we have that syntactic sugar
but we still have the construct a function which we can add
to run any initialization code.
You might also wanna add a couple of functions
or methods they're then called
which you can call on the created object.
For example, a describe method here
on our department class.
Now a method is added like this,
the name of the method,
then no colon, no equal sign instead,
parentheses and then curly braces.
The parentheses take any arguments you might need.
Now let's say here, we don't need any,
otherwise you could add parameters just as you do it
in a regular function.
And what you typically always need though,
is a function body or a method body
between the curly braces.
Here you now define the logic of your method.
And there we might wanna output the name of the department
with a little bit of extra information maybe.
We can do this of course here with console.log, for example,
department, colon and then maybe name.
However, this would not work.
This would look for a variable name,
which has to exist inside of this described method,
or outside of the class as a global variable.
And as you see if it chose age,
I get an error for name I don't do this,
I don't get this because there actually is
a global name variable in the browser in the window object.
Nonetheless, this would not refer to this name property here
but to some global name variable outside of this class.
To refer to a class property or
method from inside of the class,
we have to use the this keyword
as we do it here in the constructor.
This then typically refers back to the
concrete instance of this class that was created.
And there with the dot notation,
we can access all the properties and methods
off this instance.
In this case, this.name.
So if I now, down there, call accounting.describe like this.
The this keyword, when this executes will refer
to this concrete accounting object
that was built based on this class.
So if I now save that,
and we reload, we should see this output here,
of which of course has a typo,
but generally it works.
Let's now fix the typo here.
So this is how we can add a method.
Now what important word about this keyword.
As you probably know, if you've worked
with JavaScript a bit, the this keyword can be tricky.
For example,
if I would add another
object here accounting copy
and this is our object which just has
the describe method and dare I point at accounting.describe.
Then if I call accountingcopy.describe as a method,
what do you think will happen?
Do you think we'll get an error?
We certainly get no compilation error
that compiles just fine.
But at runtime, we see department undefined.
And the reason for that is that what I'm doing
is I'm adding a describe property to this object
which is created with the object literal,
not based on this class, but just as a dummy object
not based on any specific class you defined.
And then the value for this describe property
is a pointer at the describe method in my accounting object.
So I'm pointing at this method here
to find for this concrete object.
I'm not executing it.
So I'm not passing the value of
this function execution to describe.
I'm really passing the function itself to describe here.
So when I then call describe here on the copy,
it does indeed execute the method
this all works correctly.
The problem just is, when this method executes,
this will not refer to this object
this method was part of originally,
so not to the accounting object.
Instead, this,
and that's a good rule of thumb you can memorize,
typically refers to the thing which is responsible
for calling a method.
And responsible for calling the describe method
here in this case, is accounting copy.
Because we call describe on accounting copy.
So this will refer to the thing in front of the dot here,
which is accounting Copy.
That however, is an object which has no name property.
So when I access this.name,
I get an error because of this does not refer
to an object with a name property.
So name yields us undefined indeed.
And that's why I'm getting this strange output.
That's one thing you have to keep in mind,
not just in TypeScript, it's a JavaScript thing.
And of course, therefore it can happen to you
in TypeScript as well.
Now, to work around this, "this" problem,
you can add a parameter
to the describe method,
which is called this.
That's a special parameter,
a special instruction understood by TypeScript.
If you add a parameter named this here,
it's not really a parameter which is expected,
you still can call describe without passing in any value.
Instead, this is interpreted by TypeScript,
to be a hint regarding what this should be referred to.
And now it's important to assign a type to this.
And the type here, in this case should be
our class type here so department.
What I'm saying with this is,
when describe is executed
this inside of describe, so in this case here,
should always refer to an instance
that's based on the department class.
So an object which in the end would be of type department.
And therefore now we actually get an error down there,
we get an error here,
because what we got here is that
when we call describe here on accounting copy,
we're not calling it on an instance of department.
So therefore this will be violated.
This in this case, will not refer
to an object of type department.
So here we add some extra type safety
by adding this dummy parameter,
because now if I try to save this,
I do get an error related to this line here.
Because now Indeed, we would execute some code
that would not work as expected.
So we have to fix this, for example,
by adding a name property here
for that to work because now TypeScript sees Okay,
the object on which you're calling describe,
now has a name property just like this expects it to have
because this is based on the department object,
which also has a name property.
So now here, TypeScript would be happy
because we added name.
If I remove it, we get the error back with name
however this works, and we avoid this
undefined output from before.
So that's important to understand about this.
And it's important to be aware of this improvement
you could add to your code to make sure
that you catch unwanted behaviors
like we had down there before.
