So that was a very basic class.
Now when building classes,
they often get more complex than that.
And you might want to store more data in there.
Let's say a department all should have employees.
That could be an array,
and initially it might be an empty array.
And to also be a bit more precise about
what you want to store in there,
it could be a string array to keep it relatively simple.
Now we could have a method here addEmployee.
There we want an employee as an argument,
which should just be a string in our example.
Then we can set this.employees.push.
So push a new employee onto our employee's array
with this code.
Now we can also add another method,
printEmployeeInformation.
And there I want to console.log(this.employees.length)
and I also want to console.log(this.employees) itself.
Now if we go down here, now we can comment out
this code here, which would break again
because we again don't fit the department description
with our object down there.
And instead here, on this accounting department,
we can add an employee, let's say Max.
And another employee, let's say Manu.
And then besides describing it,
I also want to get my employee information down there.
If we save this, we should get this output,
two employees and here's some information.
Now that's all nice to have.
One problem we have with this class is
that we could change employees from outside,
not only with add employee,
but by directly accessing the employee's property,
just as we can do it for the name as well, by the way.
So what I mean is we could also go to accounting,
and then reach out to employees,
and maybe add another employee at index two,
and there pass an Anna, like that.
If we do that and we save it,
we get three employees and we get Anna.
Now you might think, well great, we got another way.
Well when building more complex applications,
you typically want to avoid something like this though.
You wanna make sure that there is one clear path,
one way of using your class, and that things like that,
alternative ways of using it,
are not really supported.
Because if you're working in a bigger team,
well then one colleague is going
to use this approach for adding an employee
and another colleague might use this approach.
And you don't want this.
You want to have one uniform way of doing this.
Also, because maybe in the add employee method,
you do more than just add it to the array.
Maybe you first of all want
to have some validation etc in here.
So you might have extra code in there,
which simply does not execute
if you directly assign a new value
or add a new value to the array with this line here.
So you don't want to permit that employees
is accessible like this from outside of the class.
And TypeScript's got you covered.
You can turn employees here into a private property,
a private field by adding a private keyword
in front of it.
Now what private means is
that employees is now a property,
which is only accessible from inside the class,
so from inside the creative object.
So any method inside of the department class
is able to still work with employees.
But you can't access like this anymore.
Here you see I'm now getting an error.
If I try to save this, I get a compilation error
that the property 'employees' is private
and only accessible within the class 'department'.
So now we force that when employees
should be added to this department,
people have to use the addEmployee method.
Because they get an error if they write code like this.
This is a so-called modifier here, the private keyword.
And besides private, we also got public,
which is the default though.
You don't need to add public.
So name like this is exactly the same
as name with public in front of it.
The difference is that public properties
are accessible from outside.
So for example here, I could also reach out to name
and assign a new name here if I wanted to.
That is possible.
For private properties, this here is not possible.
We can only use them from inside.
Technically, by the way,
JavaScript doesn't know public and private.
Only in very modern versions added recently
such a thing exists.
In the past, JavaScript didn't know
private or public properties.
All properties always were public there.
TypeScript introduces this feature,
which of course does not work during runtime however,
because JavaScript until recently
only knew public properties.
So this line here, frozen error
during TypeScript compilation.
If you compile it to JavaScript nonetheless,
this code will still execute at runtime without errors
because again, JavaScript on its own,
until recently didn't know this concept.
So depending on the version you're compiling for,
it still won't know it.
And therefore, TypeScript only supports this
because it checks it during compilation,
not at runtime.
With it however, we can avoid code like this
and force everyone to write cleaner code.
