Now that we learned about private and public,
I also wanna turn name into a private property.
And now here we have a little bit of a,
not really an issue,
but a little bit of a inconvenience.
We have that name field here,
then we get a value for it here in the constructor,
and then we store that value for that field
here in the constructor, in the field.
We can do that,
and it's certainly very clear what we're doing here.
But, in a lot of use cases, you'll have a lot of classes
where all the properties you have,
all the fields you have,
are initialized to the constructor.
And therefore, often,
you might find yourself writing a couple of properties,
a couple of fields like this at the top
no matter if they're private or public -
and then you just repeat all of that
down there in the constructor,
just to then initialize these values here
in the constructor function.
You don't have to do that.
Instead of doing this double-initialization code here,
you can get rid of your field definitions up there.
And now you see you will get an error.
But you can also get rid of this here,
and instead, now simply add the access modifier
in front of the parameter.
So if it should be public, add public.
Let's say, for the name, we keep it public now.
If it should be private, add private.
Here, you have to add public
because this now is an explicit instruction for typescript,
that tells typescript that you want to
not just get these arguments here in the constructor,
but that you want to create properties for this class
with the exact same names.
And therefore, here, we should also rename n to name.
So that the name property is created
on the creator class.
So this is simply a shortcut
for this double-initialization code here.
Where you had to find your fields,
and then store the value,
now we're doing it all in one go.
We define which arguments the constructor takes,
and then for every argument
which has such a access modifier in front of it,
a property of the same name is created,
and the value for the argument
is stored in that created property.
So now we just have to fix our department creation here,
and add an ID because I added this new argument.
And now what you'll see is
that when we call describe down there,
and I do actually, I'll put the ID there as well,
maybe by changing this department user string,
literal here,
Department
this.id
and then here this.name,
you will see that this all still works.
It compiles without errors here.
And here we get the output with our ID
and with our name.
Because of that little shortcut,
we also saved some code for all of that.
