So we work with our department

quite a bit here and I created my accounting department.

Now for the application we're building,

we might need departments, of course,

but we might need more information

for the specific types of departments.

We might have an IT department,

which has an ID, which has a name, which has employees,

but which also has administrators,

something which only the IT department has for example.

We might have the accounting department

which might also have an ID, a name, and employees,

but it might also have, let's say, reports.

An array of reports it generated, and so on.

So you might have some base properties and also methods

which all departments should have,

but then we might have specialized versions

of these departments with their own specific properties

and methods which only that department might have.

An inheritance can help us implement something like this.

So how can we utilize inheritance here?

Well we have our class department.

Now let's create these specialized departments.

So here we could have a class IT department.

And in this class here, I want to utilize the name

and the ID and the employees of the general department

but I want to add my own features.

Now we can inherit the department class

by using the extends keyword here

and then the class we want to inherit.

In this case, that's department.

Now, important you can only inherit from one class,

so you can't inherit from multiple classes,

if you would need that.

So now, here, I'm inheriting from department

and one consequence is that if I now create

an IT department here, I indeed can call it like this,

with this kind of constructor, even though

the IT department class is empty.

If we save that, we indeed see it works as before,

because when we inherit from another class,

the class which inherits automatically gets everything

the base class, department in this case, has,

including its constructor, so as long as we don't add

a dedicated constructor for this inherited class,

so for this subclass, the base class' constructor,

so this constructor is automatically used

when we instantiate our subclass.

So we in the end magically call the base class constructor

with the arguments we're passing here.

Now we can add our own constructor, though,

by adding constructor here in IT department

and now you see I'm getting errors.

For one, we now of course should accept

the data we're getting here, though we could argue

the name should not be something we need to pass in here.

And it shouldn't also be accounting.

But instead here, the name of the department,

since it's the IT department class, can always be IT.

I still want to accept my ID though,

but now I want to essentially forward that

just like the fixed name IT,

to the constructor of department.

And for that we have a special keyword we can,

and in this case we have to, use.

And that's super.

Whenever you add your own constructor

in a class that inherits from another class,

you have to add super in the inheriting class

and you have to execute it like a function.

Super here calls the constructor of the base class,

so department constructor in this case.

And now the other super takes the arguments

of the parent class constructor, the ID, and the name.

So here I can forward ID, so ID which I'm getting here

is just passed to super, and I can hard code

a value for the name, like IT.

So this will now call the constructor

of the base class from inside the subclass.

Now, important, you have to call super first

in your constructor before you do anything

with the "this" keyword.

So if you plan on assigning any other special properties

here you have to do that after calling super.

And indeed I want to add my own special properties here.

We could add our admins here.

Let's say as a private, or as a public, actually.

As a public property, admins,

and that should be an array of strings, let's say.

Well then I don't want to forward this

to my base class because the department class

doesn't want any administrator data.

Instead, I want to store this in a property of IT department

so here we can then add admins as a field

which takes a couple of administrators

and store admins in there,

or because I'm using public in here,

I'm already using that shortcut where a property

of the same name will be created and the data

we feed into this argument is stored

in that automatically created property.

Still to make it clear that super has to be called first,

I'll take the longer route, add admins here, like that,

and then here say, this.admins = admins.

Again, the shortcut would be shorter.

I'm doing this here to show and make it really clear

that if you are using something that uses the "this" keyword

you have to do that after calling super.

And with that if we save that, I'm going to get an error,

because I'm not passing in any admins,

so let's do that here.

Max is the only admin I'm passing in here.

Now we can save that and compiled it without errors

and now here, indeed we see our department here.

It now has the name IT.

And if we console log the entire department,

and we may be able to rename this from accounting to IT

and then console.log IT here.

Of course renaming that was optional, just makes more sense,

given that we're building an IT department here.

Now that I console logged the entire department,

we indeed see we got admins, but we also got employees

and everything which I set up in my department class here.

So that's inheritance in action,

a very useful feature, because now of course,

we can also create our accounting department here

by extending department

and there we can then add our accounting specific things.

So we can still use a constructor here,

and now maybe with the shortcut,

accept a couple of reports here

which might be a private property

and then we have addReport which takes text,

which should be a string, and then we reach out

to reports here and push text as an item into the report

and maybe we also have getReports here

and there we just console.log (this.reports)

or we name it printReports, therefore it makes more sense.

And now we would have a very special version

of a department with two methods

which the base department doesn't have

and with an extra property

which the base department doesn't have.

And still, we get everything from the base department.

The name, which I'll set to accounting here,

and the ID, which we also forward

to the base department constructor.

And so with that, down there,

if we create our accounting here

with new AccountingDepartment,

we can feed in our ID and then our reports.

Let's say that's an empty array initially.

Then we can call addReport, something went wrong,

never that good of course, in the accounting I guess,

and then we can also print our reports here like that

and with all of that it compiles just fine

and we get the report here and we see,

the IT department for example, wouldn't have any reports.

The accounting department does because of inheritance,

where we inherit certain features and add our own features.

