Now there is another interesting return type,
which you'll also see sometimes with functions.
And for that, let's say, we have a function logAndThrow.
And here we expect to get some error message.
So this might be a function we call in a place in our code,
if something goes wrong.
And then in there we maybe log the error message.
But then we also throw a new error,
let's say, a new error which wraps that error message.
And here this new error thing is,
a built in feature of JavaScript.
It's not TypeScript exclusive.
You could do this in just JavaScript as well.
That's how you can create error objects there.
So this is a utility function you might be using
in your code, if you wanna log an error
and then throw it essentially.
Now the return type of this function is interesting
because it is void.
But you could override it to never.
And that's a never special type offered by TypeScript.
As you saw it inferred void here, at least at the point
of time where I'm recording this
because yes, this function doesn't return anything,
but actually you could overwrite the inferred type to never,
which is a bit more specific and which is a type
provided by TypeScript,
because never means that this function,
you could say, will never complete.
Yes, it will not return anything,
but it will not return anything
because it will never return.
This log function up here will at some point be finished
and then just not return anything.
This function on the other hand, will not finish,
you could say because it froze in error,
which could crash your program,
if you're not catching it somewhere else.
So there is a subtle difference here.
And this difference can be expressed
by using this never type.
Now you might not care too much about that.
You might be fine with the inferred void type,
but you will see that never type
in certain places in other projects.
And by explicitly setting it, you can make sure
that you'll never accidentally use that function
and try to store a return value in a variable
or constant, because if you try to do so,
that constant or variable will have the never type inferred
since the function returns never.
And if you then try to use that
and try to access some property
or anything like that, that won't work
because TypeScript knows
that this will never contain a value, so to say.
So it's kind of philosophical, the difference between
never and void, but I hopefully could get the point across.
As mentioned, it often won't matter
if you specify this or not.
But if you see it somewhere, now you know what it's about.
And if you do create a function that froze an error
and that will therefore never return an error,
you might just set that return type here
to make sure that this function can never be used somewhere
where a value is expected or anything like that.
