So, now, that's the basics about inheritance.

We can also override methods

or properties of our base class.

So, let's say in the accounting, I want to add my own

addEmployee method.

We can do that.

We can add our own method here,

and get the name here.

Let's say.

And now, here, I want to have a different

logic for adding that.

An extra if check or an if check if name=Max,

well, then I want to return,

and not add Max as an employee,

because Max is totally unsuited for that.

Otherwise, if the name is not Max,

I want to add the employee.

Now, however, we face another issue.

If I try to add these two employees,

we see employees is not a known property.

The reason for that is that employees is private.

Now, that's important.

Private properties are really only accessible

from inside the class in which they're defined,

not classes that inherit from that class.

So, employees is available inside of the department,

but not in classes based on department.

So, accounting department doesn't have direct access

to the employees properties.

If we want to grant that access, and still make sure that

it's not a property that can be changed from outside,

we can switch it to protected.

Protected is like private, but unlike private,

it's now not just available in this class,

but also in any class that extends this class.

So, now we can access employees from

inside our accounting department.

Here, I can now add an employee if it's not Max.

Therefore, now, if I go down there,

and on my accounting,

I want to add an employee of the name Max.

This should not work.

If I try to add Manu, this should work.

So, if we now save that, and we also output print employee

information here, and then save that,

we should see that, indeed,

we have one employee there, which is Manu,

because of my own accounting method logic for AddEmployee,

Max was not added.

So, the key takeaway here is that you

A) can override methods of your base class.

You can add your own implementation,

and then that implementation is used,

instead of the base class's implementation.

And B) you also have to control access to

properties with protected.

Because if you use private,

you're really restricted to this class,

whereas protected still makes it inaccessible from outside,

but makes it accessible from inside of classes

that extend the base class.

