So that's classes, properties,
and inheritance with Typescript.
And as I mentioned,
these features although generally
are supported in Javascript,
in modern JavaScript,
of course with the exception of type assignments,
and also with the exception of protected private public.
These keywords are really only available in Typescript.
Now it's not all what you can do with classes though.
Whenever need feature,
which you also have in vanilla JavaScript,
in which is also supported in Typescript,
are getters and setters.
Now let's see that here on the accounting department
for example,
let's say we have a last report, property.
Which is a private property, and it's a type string,
so we have that.
And then here we initialize this,
to be our reports property orders argument
we're getting here and they're the first value.
Which of course is basically undefined if we pass in
and empty report array.
Now when we add a report, then I wanna set this last report,
equal to text.
Which is what we add to our reports array.
Now last report is private,
so we can access it from inside this method,
but we won't be able to access it from outside
with the dot notation.
Now we can add a getter, to still make it accessible.
A getter is basically a property,
where you execute a function or method,
when you retrieve a value
and that allows you as a developer
to add more complex logic.
Here, you create a getter by using the get keyword,
and then any name of your choice.
Typically closely related to the property
you're trying to control the access to.
For example here we could name it most recent report.
Anything like that.
Now important this is defined like a method.
So you add parenthesis and then curly braces.
And now in here, you have to return something,
that's important a getter method, has to return something.
So you could return this last report,
and then we kind of encapsulate this,
because this is publicly accessible now.
But often you want to have more complex logic here.
So here we could check if we have a value here,
so if this is truth.
If it's not undefined,
then we want to return last report,
otherwise we might want to return some different logic,
for example let's say otherwise we throw an error message
with throw new error, no reports found.
So now we added more logic, more complex logic,
to this property and when we want to retrieve it,
we can't directly retrieve this property through
the dot notation, but we can use this as a property
to the end run this logic.
So how would this work?
Well down there, where I create my Accounting department.
Before I add my report, if I tried to Console log,
accounting.mostrecentreport,
and now important.
Oops, accounting.mostrecentreport.
And now important you access this as a property.
So no parenthesis here.
You don't execute this as a method.
You just access it like a normal property,
and behind-the-scenes,
this will execute this method up there.
So if I tried this now before we added our report,
We'll see that this rebuilt without errors,
recompiled without errors,
but of course here an error is thrown it's our
custom no report found error,
because no report was added yet,
and since using this as a getter,
accesses this method and executes it.
If we have no report we don't make it to this IF check,
or into this IF statement,
and therefore this line here, kicks in.
As an alternative if we would move that down,
after we added a report,
then of course we can save that,
and we no longer get an error,
but instead we output this last report.
So that's a getter.
And you can also add a setter.
A setter is added almost in the same way.
You use the set keyword,
and then again any name of your choice.
typically a name related to the property
which should be set.
So here I will reuse most recent report.
So that we can use this both to read a value
and to set a value.
And then again,
you defined this like a method.
But now, this needs to take an argument.
The value which the user would have passed in.
In here there should be a string value,
and now in here you can run any logic you want
to store this.
Now here since were passing in a value for
the most recent report, I in the end want to execute
add report.
So here a setter could simply be an alternative
to the add report method.
So in here we can access this add report.
This is required since we're inside of the class.
We refer to the class, and then to this class method here.
And now we can just forward value here.
Now we could add a more complex logic,
and also check if value is maybe not defined if it's false,
and then just return or throw a new you error,
where we say please pass in a valid value.
That is something we could also do.
And now we're using a setter here as well.
With that added we can test it.
Down there, I could add
most recent report.
I could access this on accounting,
and just like this we would read from it,
but now by adding an equal sign,
we're trying to set a value to that,
and that will trigger this setter method.
Again just before we don't execute it as a method,
but simply access it like a property.
Now here if I pass in an empty string,
then we technically do pass in a string,
but an empty string will be treated as false, see here.
And therefore, we should now get an error.
So if I save this line of code,
if I save the code with this line of code added,
we did get this error please pass in a valid value.
If I do pass in a valid value though,
if I say year-end report here for example,
and I now save this.
Now you will see this all works and year-end report
is part of our reports list.
So these are getters and setters,
which can be great for encapsulating logic,
and for adding extra logic,
that should run when you try to read a property,
or when you try to set a property.
