Another nice feature

related to properties and methods,

which exists also in JavaScript

when you're using ES6 or later,

but all the the typescripts

are static properties and methods.

Static properties and methods allow you to add properties

and methods to classes which are not accessed

on an instance of the class,

so where you don't need to call new class name first,

but which you access directly on the class.

This is often used for utility functions

that you want to group or map to a class logically,

or global constants which you also wanna store in a class.

An example built into JavaScript,

which is not defined by typescript and not defined by you,

but part of JavaScript in the browser

is the Math constructor function,

or class if you wanna call it like this,

that's globally available in JavaScript,

where you can access pi as a constant value

to give you that pi number,

or functions, or methods to be precise,

like pow to calculate the power of something.

These are methods and properties

which you don't access on the instance of Math.

You don't have to call new math first.

Indeed that won't work, but you access these properties

in methods directly on the class itself.

So Math acts more like a name space

as a grouping mechanism here

and that's a common use case

for static methods and properties

and you can add them to your own classes as well.

Let's say on Department we want to have a method

that helps us create employees

and that is something we might wanna be able to access

without instantiating Department,

because we typically instantiate

our more specialized versions, IT department,

and accounting department

and we don't really wanna instantiate Department

just to call a utility method

and therefore we can add a method here,

create Employee, let's say, where we want to get the name,

which is a string as an argument

and there we wanna return something.

Now to make that a static method,

which we can access without instantiating this class,

we add the static keyword in front of this method

and then in here we maybe return an object

where we have the name property mapped to this name value.

Now of course that's a very simple method,

but you get the idea.

Now to use that we could go down there

where we execute our code

and now let's say we want a new employee, employee1.

Well then we can just get this

with Department.createEmployee and pass in Max for example

and if I then console.log(employee1)

we should see an object with the name of Max.

So if I save that, indeed here

this is the employee we just created.

So this would be a typical example for a static method.

We call it directly on the class, without the new keyword,

and therefore we use the class

as a grouping mechanism you could say

and if you would want to add a static property,

you could do that as well.

If you had something like the fiscalYear here

that you currently wanna use in your company,

you could set this to, let's say, 2020

and then again to make it available

without instantiating this

you could add static in front of this property,

or in front of that field and now access that.

So now down there console.log.(mycreatedemployee).

Here we can also access Department.fiscal.Year

just like that without instantiating it

and if we save that,

unsurprisingly we'll see 2020 being logged here.

So these are static methods and properties.

One important word about them,

or one thing you should keep in mind.

When you add them on a class,

you can't access them from inside your non static parts.

So if you feel like

accessing the fiscalYear here in the constructor,

and you wanna console.log it here,

this, as you can see will not work.

I'm getting an error here that

the property fiscalYear is a static member.

We can't access this here because the constructor

and basically anything in there, all the methods as well,

which are not marked with static,

and you can't mark the constructor as static, by the way,

will not be able to access static properties,

because this does refer

to the instance created based on the class

while the static property is not available on instance

because the whole idea behind static properties

and static methods is that they're detached from instances.

So of course you can't access them with the this keyword.

If you would want to use the static property

or method from inside the class,

you would have to use the class name here to access it.

This gives you access to static properties

and methods all from inside the class.

That's one important thing to keep in mind.

