So with static properties out of the way,

let's come back to inheritance

and to a concept related to that.

Another way of adding methods to classes,

which you plan to inherit from.

Here's our Department class and as you know,

we're inheriting from it on the IT Department

and the Accounting Department.

Now, we do have that describe method

here in our Department class,

and therefore we can call this on any instance,

based on IT Department and Accounting Department

because these classes are based on Department,

and they have access to all the properties

and methods of that Department base class.

Now, as you learned, you can override methods.

So for example, here in the Accounting Department,

we could add our own describe method version,

where I want to do something different,

where maybe when I say Accounting Department

ID, and then Access Distort ID.

Now, this would not work here,

because ID is a private property of Department

and therefore, we need to turn this into a protected one

so that it's available in classes

based on this class as well.

But with that, it should work.

And if I now call describe on accounting,

which we can do, of course,

let's maybe comment out these two lines, and instead,

call accounting.describe down there,

we should see that new output,

and indeed, we see Accounting Department ID, d2.

Now, of course, we could also override the describe method

in the IT Department.

But sometimes you don't just want to offer the option

of overriding a method because that always exists.

You instead want to force the developers working

with a certain class or extending a certain class

to implement a certain method

or to override a certain method.

When would you do that?

Well, whenever you wanna ensure that a certain method

is available in all classes based on some base class

in this case Department.

But when also know at the same time that the exact

implementation will depend on the specific version,

so when you can provide a general method,

but you want to enforce that this method exists,

but the inheriting classes will need

to provide their own implementation

because you can't provide a default implementation

in the base class.

So in such a situation,

you might wanna have an empty method in your base class

and now force all classes based on that class

to add and override this method

and you can do so by adding the abstract keyword here.

If you add abstract here,

you see we get an error that this is only available

in an abstract class.

So if you have one method or more with abstract

in front of the method, you have to add abstract

here in front of class as well and now,

we're good regarding that,

but now you see I have an error here.

Describe cannot have an implementation

because it is marked as abstract.

You have to remove the curly braces,

add a semicolon, and instead add the return type

this should have, in this case white.

So now, you're just defining

how this method should look like what its structure is,

but you're not saying anything else besides this.

Now, however, we get an error in the IT Department

because it does not implement the inherited

abstract member describe, which means ,

we don't offer the describe method here.

And we do have to do that because we're based

on the Department class, which is abstract,

and which has such abstract method.

Which means this method has to be implemented

by any class based on this Department class.

So now here in IT Department,

we have to add a describe method.

And in there, we can now console log IT Department,

and then do whatever we want.

This can be the same implementation

as we have it in the Accounting Department,

but it can also be a different one.

So now with that, we can save this and it re-compiles,

and we get the almost same output as before.

But now we have two different implementations

of the describe method in our different classes

based on Department.

Abstract can therefore be very useful if you wanna

enforce that all classes based on some other class,

share some common method or property,

you can also have abstract properties.

But at the same time,

you wanna make sure that you don't have to provide

the concrete value ,the concrete implementation

in the base class, but instead,

the inheriting class has to do that.

Also important, abstract classes.

So classes marked as abstract with this keyword

can be instantiated themselves.

So you can't instantiate Department now.

It's basically just a class that stare to be inherited

from so that the inheriting classes can be instantiated,

and inheriting classes are forced to provide concrete

implementations for in this case to describe method

following the structure you laid out here.

So with this keyword referring to a Department instance

or instance, somehow based on Department including inherited

classes that might be in between

and that it doesn't return anything

