Now there is one last interesting feature

which I also want to introduce,

and that would be private constructors.

And what's a private constructor and which use does it have?

There is a pattern in object oriented programming

which is called the singleton pattern.

The singleton pattern is about ensuring

that you always only have exactly one instance

of a certain class.

This can be useful in scenarios where you somehow

can't use static methods or properties

or you don't want to,

but at the same time you want to make sure

that you can't create multiple objects based on a class

but that you always

have exactly one object based on a class.

Let's say for our AccountingDepartment

we wanna make sure that we can only create exactly

one object based on this class,

because we have exactly one accounting department

in our entire company.

We might have more than one IT department

but we have exactly one accounting department.

Now to enforce this and to avoid

that we manually call new AccountingDepartment

multiple times, we can turn the constructor

of the AccountingDepartment class

into a private constructor by adding the private keyword

in front of it.

Now what this does is,

it ensures that we can't call new on this.

Here you see I'm getting an error

because the constructor is private

so it's only accessible from inside the class,

which sounds strange because how do we get inside

of the class if we can't create objects based on it anymore.

The answer is, well, static methods.

A static method can be called on the class itself

so you don't have instantiate it for that.

So here we can add a static method which

we could call getInstance,

the name is totally up to you though.

Now getInstance will check if we already have an instance

of this class and if not, return a new one.

For that we can add a new static property instance,

a static private property

so you can put private in front of static

called instance which will be of type AccountingDepartment.

So in there we'll store an AccountingDepartment instance.

So that's what I'm saying here,

I have a static property

which is accessible on the class itself,

but only from inside the class

and the value we store in there will be

of type AccountingDepartment, so of the class itself.

Now we can use this instance property here in getInstance

and check if this.instance is set here inside

of static, if we use this, it will refer to the class itself

and then we can access all other static properties on that.

The alternative to that would be to use the class name.

And now if this is set I want to return this.instance,

or again classname.instance but this inside

of a static method works, it gives us access

to the class itself then,

unlike this in a non static method which gives us access

to the instance with which we're trying to work,

not what we're doing here.

If however we don't make it in here then

we have no instance yet,

then I set this.instance, so this static instance property

equal to new AccountingDepartment,

we can use this from inside here

because now we're inside of this class method,

so here we can access the private constructor

and pass in our ID,

and our reports array

and then return this.instance here.

So now we're either returning the one instance

we might already have,

or if we don't have it yet we create a new one.

But this code, the marked code here,

can only run once because once we have an instance

we make it into we make it into this if block

and we return the existing instance.

So now if you wanna work with the AccountingDepartment,

instead of creating it like this we could call,

const accounting AccountingDepartment.getInstance,

and this returns us a new instance

of the AccountingDepartment.

But if I do this again I will get the same instance as

you will see if I console log accounting,

and accounting2 here.

You will see that the two should be exactly equal,

if we save that and reload,

you see down there are my two AccountingDepartment objects,

they have the same ID, the exact same setup,

they are the same object, the same instance

because we only have one instance

with this singleton pattern which is created

with the help of the private keyword in front

of the constructor.

Now this is, arguably, an approach which

you won't use all the time.

The singleton pattern can sometimes be useful,

you don't need it all the time,

but it's definitely worth to know about it

because it is something interesting which

you can easily implement with TypeScript thanks

to private constructors.

