Now that we covered classes,
let's have a look at interfaces.
We are going to rename the app ts file to classes
and add a new app ts file,
while hereafter will be compiled to app js.
And in this app ts file,
we'll now dive into interfaces.
What is an interface?
Well, in its simplest version,
an interface describes the structure of an object.
We can use it to describe how an object should look like.
Let me show you an example.
We create an interface with the interface keyword,
which only exists in typescript, not in vanilla JavaScript.
Now let's name it person.
Again, just like in a class,
I start with a capital character,
not a must do but a recommendation and a convention.
Now in there,
we can define how a person object should look like.
Now unlike a class,
we'll not use this as a blueprint, however.
Just as a custom type, we could say.
Here, you could say a person could have a name,
which is of type string,
and an age which is of type number.
As you can see here,
I add properties or field definitions,
where I have the names of the properties
and the types of the values that'll be stored in there.
What we don't have here are the concrete values.
So we don't have this.
And if we were to try and assign a default value here,
we would get an error
that an interface cannot have an initializer.
So we can just define the structure,
not the concrete values.
We can also add a method here, greet for example.
Now just as with properties,
we don't add the actual method here though
but just the structure,
the description so to speak.
How it should look like.
And to define a method which a person object should have,
we add the name of the method, then parentheses,
then return type.
For example, white,
and in parentheses
you could have any arguments you wanna have.
Like a phrase which should be a type.
Again, just the name of the argument and then the type.
Then the return type of the method.
Of course, you don't have to add parameters.
What can we now do with this person interface?
What's the idea behind it?
Well, we can now use this
to type check an object, for example.
We could have a variable, user one,
and let's say
for some reason we don't initialize immediately.
We just wanna eventually store an object in there,
which has this structure.
Then we can assign a type to user one,
which could be person.
We can use our interface as a type.
And now when I assign a value to user one,
it has to be an object
because interfaces are used to define objects.
And it has to be an object with a name property,
which must hold a string,
an age property, which must hold a number,
and a greet method which must take a phrase argument
and then also return nothing.
Here in this object,
we can add a name.
Max, for example.
Now here we add the concrete value
and it has to be of that type defined up there.
Now separated with a comma,
and that's a difference from our interface definition.
There we separate our keys and properties with semi-colons.
But down there, when we create our object,
just as in vanilla JavaScript we use a comma.
Then an age, and of course, also the greet method.
Now the greet method, as you learned,
has to be a method which takes one parameter, phrase,
which has to be a string,
and where I then want to console log
phrase plus some white space plus this.name.
This could be one implementation of the greet method.
Now what's in there doesn't matter.
Its just important that we have this one parameter,
which is a string,
and that we return nothing.
Now this would be a valid user one object
because it satisfies this definition of our interface.
Therefore, of course,
we can now for example call greet
and say hi there, I am,
and thereafter we should print name.
If now save that and then reload,
we see hi there I am Max.
And that's coming from our greet method.
This is an interface.
It allows us to define the structure of an object.
We can use it as a type to type check
for objects that must have this structure.
