Now if we come back to this interface here,
the question is why do we need this?
Wouldn't we have the exact same thing
if we would add a custom type here and there?
The difference is just that we have to add an equal sign
and then we're saying the Person type is an object
which looks like this?
And indeed, if we save that,
it compiles without errors.
So we could replace our interface with such type
and it works as before.
So why do we have an interface then?
Well, an interface
and a custom type are not exactly the same
whilst often, you can use them interchangeably
and you can use an interface instead of a custom type
or the other way around.
There also are some differences.
Well, one nature difference is
that interfaces can only be used
to describe the structure of an object,
you can use type for that as well,
but instead of a custom type,
you can also store other things
like union types and so on what we did early in the course.
That sounds like type is therefore more flexible,
but the other side of the coin is that interface is clearer.
When you define something as an interface,
it's super clear that you want
to define the structure of an object with that.
And indeed when it comes to defining object types,
you more often see interfaces out there in the wild.
Then, you see custom types.
Now, another thing you can do with interfaces
but you would only be able
to do with custom types is
you can implement an interface in a class.
What do we mean by that?
The reason why you often work with interfaces is
that an interface can be used
as a contract a class can implement
and a class then has to adhere to.
What do we mean with that?
Let's say our interface is not a Person interface
with the name and the age,
but instead we name it Greetable.
Now this might look like a strange name
but in the end this just says
any object that should be treated
as Greetable has to be object with a name
and with a greet method.
So now, we could say this here,
this user1 variable should hold a Greetable object
and of course now we get an error
because we have more than just name and greet.
But we could use this interface
to share it amongst possibly multiple classes we have
to ensure that every class
that adheres to this interface has to have a name property
and has to have a greet method.
So here, we could now add a Person class,
the name is available again
because we renamed the interface.
And now, tell typescript
and this class should basically adhere to this interface.
It should implement this interface.
It should follow that contract setup by this interface.
We do this by adding the implements keyword
after the class name.
And then, the name of our interface, Greetable.
And you can implement more than one interface.
That's a difference compared to inheritance.
You can inherit only from one class,
you can implement multiple interfaces
by simply separating them with a comma,
so there, we could have another interface
if we had one.
Here, I only have one though.
And now, the implication of this is that
we get an error here
because our class incorrectly implements the interface.
It does not have the name property,
does not have the greet method.
So now, we have to set this here in our class,
maybe I'll set a constructor
where we get a value for the name,
and then set it up like this,
and where we also add our greet method
where we then might have this logic from out there.
Now, in our class, we can have more that that.
We can have more fields,
we can have more methods,
we can also extend this class,
we can work with this class as we always can.
But we're forced to implement this method correctly
to have this name property
because we're implementing this interface.
And therefore, interfaces are often used
to share functionality amongst different classes
not regarding their concrete implementation.
You can't have implementation or values
inside of interfaces but regarding the structure,
regarding the features a class should have.
It's a bit like working with abstract classes,
therefore, the difference being
that an interface has no implementation details at all,
whereas abstract classes can be a mixture of
you have to overwrite these parts
and I have a concrete implementation parts.
That's an important difference
between interfaces and abstract classes.
Now with that however,
we have our person class here.
And now here, user1 can be created
by using new Person
and feeding in the name for example.
And now, use see it's okay
that we have this age here in user1
because we boat user1 based on Person,
Person implements Greetable,
and you can add more than Greetable ones in a class
but you have to satisfy the conditions setup
by the interface.
And therefore now, if we save everything,
we have a valid code,
and if we log our user1 down there with console.log,
we see that it is a normal object
with the age and the name in this case,
but the key takeaway is that it is based on a class
which implements the interface.
And you can then all use the interface as a type.
Of course, we could have set this to type Person,
but as you see, using type Greetable here it works
because the Person object
which we store in the user1 class in the end is based
on the Greetable interface.
It implements this.
So that's another powerful feature.
You can use an interface as a type on some constant
or variable which will then actually store another class
of another type which in turn is based on the interface type
because it implements it.
So that's interfaces in a nutshell.
Lot of powerful features included.
