Okay, so now you know about

return value types, void and never.

What's interesting in JavaScript is that functions

as a whole are actually also values.

You can store a function

as a value in a variable or constant.

You can pass a function as a value to another function.

For example, we could have a function, perform job,

which takes a callback function as an argument,

and this might then do something,

maybe send an HTTP request, whatever doesn't matter.

And once it's done, it should call that callback function

to trigger some other process

once the main job here is done.

That's a common pattern in JavaScript

and actually many programming languages.

So here, cb, is a parameter which expects to get a function

as a value because as mentioned in JavaScript

functions are values.

The question now just is

how exactly do we type this cb parameter?

What is the type we can set here?

Well, TypeScript offers a built-in function type,

which makes it clear that cb will be a function

and can be executed as a function

so that you're not getting an error here.

That's okay, but it's not very specific.

Typically, you'll therefore instead specify

the exact function type you're expecting to get here.

For example, let's say callback should be a function

that expects a message, which it then logs to the console

or anything like that.

So it might expect to get a function like this,

which takes one parameter of type string.

To let TypeScript know about this

you can create a so-called function type,

and you do this by adding parentheses,

then an equal sign and a greater sign.

So an arrow you could say,

and then the return type of the function you're expecting

to get here, for example, void.

So this looks very much like an arrow function

in JavaScript.

And just to make sure that we're on the same page,

in JavaScript, you can create a function like this.

This is now not a type, this is a function.

Here we could expect to get a message of type string

and then console.log that.

So this is essentially an alternative way

of defining such a log function here.

And this is regular JavaScript.

Syntax has nothing to do with TypeScript.

It's not a type,

it is a function just written in a different way

using this arrow function syntax.

Here however, we're not creating an arrow function.

We're not creating a new function here.

Instead, we're still in a world where we define a type.

We're after this colon here after all.

So we're in the same place where we would say number

or string, but now we neither want a string nor a number

but instead we want to get a function.

And this is how you define a function type in TypeScript,

how you tell TypeScript which kind

of function you expect here.

So what do we do here?

Well, we have this arrow,

and on the right side of the arrow we define a return type

of the function we're expecting to get

as a value here in this place.

On the left side of this arrow between the parentheses,

we specify the parameters

we expect this function to have.

Like here where we might expect to get one parameter,

MSG or just M, whatever name you want,

which should be of type string.

And with that we're telling TypeScript that cb,

this parameter here should be of type function,

it should be of function.

We should get a function as a value here

where that function takes one parameter.

And of course we could accept multiple parameters

if we needed to, just to be clear.

But here we want one parameter,

which itself will be of type string.

And then that function does anything.

We don't know what, but it will return nothing.

That's what this type says here.

And with that, we can call cb instead of perform job

because it is a function,

but we now need to pass one argument to it

because we're clearly specifying

that this function wants one argument.

So here we could say job done

and now we're calling this function

which we're passing to perform job.

Therefore we could call perform job here, execute that,

and now pass another function which has this shape,

which has this type so to say as an argument to perform job.

And here in this file, I have two functions

that qualify either log message defined like this,

because that's a function that takes one parameter

of type string and returns nothing

or function log,

because this also takes one parameter of type string

and returns nothing.

So here I'll pass the log function to perform job,

but we could have also passed log message.

Now it does not matter

that the parameter names here are different,

that it's called message or MSG.

And here it's M.

This name here is not important to TypeScript.

You just need any name here

and it should be descriptive if possible.

So MSG would actually be better here to help developers

who use the perform job function understand

what this function that gets passed to perform job

actually does and wants.

But it does not matter if this name here matches the name

of the parameter of the actual function

you pass to perform job.

What does matter though is that the function you pass

to perform job, the log function in this case

does take one parameter, exactly one parameter in this case,

which is of type string.

That is important.

And that's how you can define function types.

This can also not just be helpful

when dealing with callback functions,

but also when dealing with objects and methods.

For example, let's say you're defining a user type here,

and that should be an object type.

And a user might have a name which is a string

and age which is a number.

And then let's say we wanna have a greet method here.

So now not a property which holds a string or a number,

but instead a property which holds a function

that can be called.

Well, to achieve this the type here

would be such a function type

where we might accept a message here,

but we also might not, if it's not needed

and where we might return a value of type string

or void or whatever you need.

You could of course also return an object here

or another function, whatever you need.

But with that, if we then create a user

which is a type user,

we do need to specify all these properties.

So a name, an age,

and then we also need to specify greet

either by using this arrow function syntax.

And now here we're not creating a type,

but instead a value, a function value.

Or since we're in an object here,

we can use this method syntax.

This also works.

Here we can console.log, hello there.

And then in my case here, since I specified

that this greet method should return a string,

we should also return a string down here like this.name.

So the name that's stored in this property.

And with that, we created a user object,

which has this greet method,

which satisfies this type definition up here.

And now of course you could call user greet, for example.

So that's another place where function types can be useful

besides callback functions

because that's another place where you often need

to define the shape of a function,

and now you know how to do that as well.

