You can also implement
inheritance in interfaces.
Let's say we have another interface, Named,
and this is the interface which actually makes sure
that we have a name property.
So now, here in Person, we could implement
Greetable and Named to be forced
to have both a greet method and a name.
That is something we could do.
Or, if we know that Greetable thinks greetable objects
always need to have a name,
we could make sure that this Greetable interface
actually extends the Named interface,
so that together, they form a new interface,
which forces every object based on Greetable
to have a greet method, but also to have a name.
And to do that, we can add extends here,
on the interface as well, and we extend Named.
Now therefore as I said, this forms a new interface,
which is in the end, a interface that forces us
to have a greet method, but not just that,
it also forces us to have everything
the Named interface defines.
In this case, a name property.
So if I would remove name here,
I would already get an error, because this class
now incorrectly implements the interface Greetable,
because the property name is missing.
So that's also how we can combine interfaces.
Why would we split an interface like this?
Well, maybe you have an application
where on some objects, you only want
to force them to have a name, and not a greet method,
whereas on other objects, you need both greet and name.
With this split, this is possible.
Some objects, or some classes can just implement Named,
and others can implement Greetable
and are forced to have both greet and a name.
So extending interfaces is possible.
And there you can also extend more than one.
So you can merge multiple interfaces
into one single interface.
We could merge another interface if we had it.
Simply separated with a comma.
Remember that for a classes, this was not possible.
When you use classes in inheritance,
you can only inherit from one class.
You can't inherit from multiple classes.
For interfaces that is different.
For interfaces, you can indeed inherit
from multiple interfaces, because in the end
they're all just getting merged together,
and in this pure TypeScript feature,
which is actually not translated
to JavaScript as you will see,
we can therefore break the rules
set up for JavaScript classes,
and extend multiple interfaces.
