Now, I mentioned
that interfaces are used
to define the structure of an object.
Now, interfaces can also be used
to define the structure of a function.
So basically as a replacement for the function types
you already learned about.
Just as quick refresher,
we can define the type of a function,
for example, with a custom type with the type keyword.
AddFn for add function
which then could hold a function definition like this.
It should return a number
and it should take two arguments
where each argument also is of type number.
Now, we could create a new function add here
which is of type AddFn and when we don't initialize it
but assign our function later,
then of course, we have to make sure
that this function takes two arguments
which are of type number
and that in there, we also return a number.
This is something that we can do.
This is what you already learned.
Now, you can also use an interface as an alternative
to this custom type.
Interfaces are there to define the structure of an object
as I taught you but in the end,
functions are just objects
and therefore this is a little exception.
You can create function types with interfaces.
For that you create an interface, name it AddFn
to still keep that name here.
And now in there, you define the bit of function
by just adding parentheses with your arguments,
a: number, B:number, for example,
and then a colon, not an arrow
but a colon here with the return type.
So in the end, like you would define a method
as we're doing it here with greet,
with the exception that we're now not adding a method name.
So we have an anonymous function
if you wanna call it like this
in the AddFn interface
and TypeScript understands this special syntax
of this anonymous function in your interface
and understands that you wanna use this interface
as a function type
and this is how your function should look like.
So now we can use AddFn here
and indeed, if I would try to accept a string here,
we would get an error
because this is not assignable,
we need to have a number instead of a string.
So it's simply an alternative to this custom type.
Of course, here I would argue using the custom type
is probably a bit more common,
it's also a bit more shorter
but it's a nice alternative syntax
to be aware of, especially if you encounter this
in some project and you're otherwise lost what this means,
this strange anonymous method.
Well, it's in the end just a custom function type.
