Let's come back to interfaces for objects.

You can also define optional properties

in interfaces and also in classes, as I will show you.

For that, you add your property name, let's say

'outputName' here, can be whatever you want of course,

and that should be a string.

I don't want to force every class based on Named

to have that.

It should be optional whether you want to have it or not.

You can specify an optional property

by adding a question mark after the property name.

This tells Tivescript that this property

might exist in classes that implement this interface

but it doesn't have to.

And therefore, we get no error here in 'Person'

even though I don't have an output name property

because it is optional.

Now of course, I can add output name here

and initialize this with some value

or use it like any other property but I don't have to.

Now on a class you can also have an optional property.

Let's same name here should be optional,

because maybe we don't get a value here for N.

We can add a question mark here as well

in our class.

We now just also have to make it optional here in Named

otherwise we violate against our interface

which forces this to be a string.

Now I'm saying this can be optional.

So here it's not optional,

and here when I set this equal to N,

I only want to do this if N is truthy,

if it is set.

So only if it's not an empty string for example.

Otherwise, name will not be set and that is okay

because I turned it to be an optional property

both here in the interface but also in my class.

Now here, when we construct a new object,

we could do this without passing in a name.

To allow that, we have to go to the constructor

and provide a default value here

or also add a question mark here.

This is all to allow it.

You can add optional parameters

either by providing a default fall back value

or by adding a question mark

in which case the default value will be undefined.

And now we can call this constructor without a value

because we have that optional parameter

and because we have the optional property that is okay,

we don't need to initialize it.

And hence thereafter if you greet,

well this name of course will yield undefined.

So probably we should check here as well

if we got a name,

and if we do we console.log this.

Else, we console.log "hi" without any reference

to the name because we don't have one.

If we say that if everything compiles

and we see just hi here

because it didn't provide a name.

So that would be optional properties

both in a class and in an interface

and also in my constructor list here.

Now just to make it really clear again,

these three things are only loosely related.

You can an optional property in an interface

and then implement it as a non optional property

in the class.

You then just have to make sure that your logic is such

that this is always initialized otherwise you get an error

as you just saw.

Or you have an optional property in an interface

and an optional property in your class,

then you don't have to assign a value in all cases here.

And in addition and totally unrelated here,

you can have optional parameters

in functions and therefore also in methods

including the constructor method.

Optional parameters are defined either

with the question mark,

where the default value if not set is therefore undefined

or simply by assigning a default value like this.

Then as you learn, this is also optional

and the default value will be assumed if you don't pass in

a more specific value.

So this gives you more flexibility

in how you structure your classes,

and when we talk about interfaces,

how you structure your contracts

classes might need to adhere to.

