For that again,
I'm back in our dummy Project Setup,
which we used over and over again.
In there, we can run NPM starts
to bring up that development server.
And then in a new terminal window with the server running
in a different terminal window,
I running TSC dash W to start my
TypeScript compilation process and keep that up and running.
With that of course, we got an empty page
because there's nothing on it
but now we can play around in the app TS file
and get started with generics.
And I think it's easiest to understand generics
if we have a look at a default type,
which is built into TypeScript
with which we actually worked a lot
which turns out to be a generic
and that would be an array.
Let's say we have an array of names.
Max and Manual let's say.
So we get two names in there
then of course, the type of the name's constant
is an array of strings.
Now actually, we could think of this
as two types being combined.
Just as you can have an object with different properties
where in every property you might be
storing a different type.
An array always just a thing with different data in it,
in this case with strings in it.
So we actually have the array type, just an array
and if I would remove the names here and cut them,
you would see that TypeScript would infer this
to be an array of type anything with any data in there.
Indeed TypeScript knows the array type.
So we could say, this here should be an array
but as you see if I specified like this,
we get an error even though I can tell you that
this array type, like this exists to TypeScript.
But we see that it's a generic type
and that it requires one type argument.
And now, that's something we haven't seen before.
We never heard about generic types before.
Now, this strange notation here,
whenever you see something like this in TypeScript,
you're dealing with a generic type.
A generic type is a type which is kind of connected
with some other type and is really flexible regarding
which exact type that other type is.
Sounds difficult?
Well, let's go back to that array example.
We know that we want to store an array here.
So an array itself could be a type,
it's a list of data that on its own
already makes up a type, you could say.
Just like an object is a type on its own,
even if we don't know yet which data will go in there.
So an array is a type on its own.
But an array of course stores data
of a certain type in there.
Now the array type itself does not care
which type of data is stored in there.
The array type does not care whether you're storing a list
of strings, of numbers, of objects,
or of mixed data.
The array type really doesn't care
but it does care about getting at least some information,
Even if you're telling it I don't know,
by setting this to type any array.
It's better than not specifying anything.
Now, this is one way of defining an array type,
the type of data which is stored in there
and then square brackets.
The other way, which would create exactly the same type
would be to use that Array thing
and then these angle brackets.
And now between these angle brackets,
you specify the type of data,
which should go into the array.
For example a string,
and this here is 100% the same as defining this type here.
Of course, here you could also use a union type to say,
this array stores strings or numbers
or use any if you don't want to say anything about the type
or as we just had it string.
So this is a generic type,
a generic type built into TypeScript.
A type which is connected to a another type,
where we want to know which our type that is
so to TypeScript can give us better support.
Because here for example,
if we know that what we store in there will be a string,
well, then we know whenever I access
an element in that array,
I can do string stuff with it.
I can call all these string methods for example
and TypeScript will not complain because it knows,
well this array hold strings.
That's the idea of generic types.
A certain type in this case the array type
might simply work better or work at all
if you provide an additional information
about a type of data that's provided in this array type
and of course, the array type is just one example.
Another generic type which is built into TypeScript
is the promise type.
Now promises are a JavaScript feature, right?
It's not a TypeScript feature.
You can create promises in JavaScript
and in case you're not sure what promises are,
attached you find the link.
A promise can be created by using new promise.
Again, this is a constructor function,
a class built into JavaScript
and the promise constructor function takes one argument
which itself is a function
which then in turn will get two arguments eventually
a resolve and a reject function.
Now these will be passed on automatically
to us by JavaScript in the browser.
And then in a promise we can for example set a timer
and then in that callback function of that timer,
we could resolve the outer promise.
So in here in this callback function,
we could call the resolve and say this is done.
Now when we do so this promise here creates a new object,
a promise object which is stored in the promise constant.
Now, this promise constant actually has a specific type.
It's of type promise and then again,
you see these angle brackets
because this promise eventually will resolve to something.
Now here it says unknown
because TypeScript is not fully able to understand
that we actually will resolve to a string here.
But therefore we could say this is a promise,
which eventually will yield a string
and we do so by again using our generic type.
The main type is promise,
but a promise just like an array,
kind of works together with other types.
An array used other types because its stored data in it,
data of certain types,
and the promise works together with other types
because eventually it kind of returns some data of some type
and in this case that's a promise
which eventually returns a string.
Now again, why is that useful?
Why is this extra type information useful?
Well, if we just had a promise type here
and that would not be allowed
but if we said promise of type anything,
which would basically the same as of types
wouldn't know generic types
if it wouldn't have any information about what we get back.
Well then on this promise of course,
we can use them as we can do an all promises
and eventually we'll get some data
but we know nothing about that data.
I can't call a string method on it, for example.
Well I can because it's any in this case
but I don't get any particular TypeScript support.
I could also try stuff on it, which definitely won't work.
For example, if we turn this around
and we return a number here,
I could still call a string method here
because TypeScript has no information
about the data this promise will eventually yield.
Now with generic types,
we give that information to TypeScript.
We can tell TypeScript that this promise
will eventually yield a string
or in this case, a number
and then TypeScript can warn us here.
If I try to save this, it will give us an error
because it knows hey this promise eventually
will yield a number and you can call split on that.
So we get better type safety with generic types.
So you're really flexible regarding what you do
with that generic type information.
An array knows which data it stores,
a promise knows which data it returns.
If you build your own generic classes or functions,
you might do something totally different than there.
But in the end generic types help you
to get additional type information if you've got
a more complex class or more complex function
that does something with the data that's coming in,
in a way where it doesn't really care
about the data being of one particular type,
but where you want to store the type information
off the incoming data to get better TypeScript support
whenever you work with your generic type.
So whenever you work with that promise, or data array,
that's basically the idea of generics.
So this here, all were built in generics.
Let's comment that out.
Let's now build our own generic type word.
Let's use our own generic types.
cảnh báo thông tin
Lên lịch thời gian học