When learning about functions
and types related to functions,
you learn about the void type,
which means that a function does not return anything.
Now there are two kind of related types
which are not specific to functions though,
and the first one is the null type, for example.
So let's say if I have a variable, A,
I can set the type to null,
and this means that this variable will hold a value of null.
So I can set A to null, that works,
but to nothing else.
So why would this be helpful?
Why would we need a null type
if we can only store a null in there?
Well, this indeed is not helpful,
but combined with other types in a union type,
this can be helpful because this then means
that a variable can hold some other value,
but it might also hold null.
For example, if I say that this may hold null
or a string, then I can store a string in there,
but also null.
Now if I just set this to type string,
storing null would not be allowed,
but of course, you do have programs
where you, at some point, might want to clear a variable,
so to say, where you wanna reset it.
So where you maybe have a string initially
and then some other code, and then you want to clear it
and remove that string from that variable
by setting the variable to null.
This does not work if you set the variable to type string,
but it does work if you also take advantage
of this special null type,
and that's therefore a type to be aware of.
Kind of related is the undefined type,
which is not the same as null though,
as you can tell by the fact
that I'm now getting an error again.
Undefined simply means that this variable can hold,
in this case here, a string or the value undefined,
which is a special value in JavaScript, just like null,
and just to be very clear, null and undefined indeed
are regular JavaScript feature, not specific to TypeScript.
Here I'm just presenting their related types.
So in this case, we could store undefined in there,
but not null.
And there is a difference between null and undefined
in JavaScript, not specific to TypeScript as mentioned.
So undefined as another type to be aware of.
