So to get started with our own generics.

Here below the commented out code.

I will start with a generic function.

You can build generic classes and functions

I'll show both and here I'll start with a function.

Now lets say we wanna have a function

which basically merges two objects and returns a new object.

So here we could name it "merge".

And we wanna get object A and object B as a input.

Now of course we could write this function in a certain way.

We could say this is of type object

and this is of type object.

And then what this function does is,

it returns the result of object assign.

Where I get object A and object B.

So of course since we got this object assign

method already built into normal javascript.

We could argue if we really need a merge function

but of course you could be doing additional work here.

You could enrich this with extra information,

with extra options and in the end

this is just a demo, just and example.

So this would be valid, we could call merge here,

and console log its result, like this.

And then pass in an object which has a name key

and a second object which has an age

and if we run that and we save this.

Here in the browser indeed we get this output.

So we get this merge object.

Now this works, the problem we have

with that is if we

try to store this

merge name max, and age 30.

If we try to store this here, I can't access name

on the result, I can't access age on the results

on this merged object.

Even though we know that both will exist.

Because typescript doesn't know this.

Typescript can't know this.

Because we are just telling it, you're getting an object

and in the end typed in first that we return an object.

Which is correct, but which doesn't carry

all the information we could use here.

Now of course we can always do type casting

we can tell typescript that what we get back

is an object where we have a name key

and where we have an age key.

But that's really cumbersome if we have to do that.

So here, generics can help us.

We turn this into a generic function by adding

these angled brackets after the function name.

And then we define Q identifiers.

Typically you start with T, for type.

But you could use any identifier here,

doesn't have to be a single character

but the convention is to use a single character

and typically, if you only have one generic type

you name this T.

And then you say, well this generic type here,

this is now available inside of this function.

So we could say what we get here is of type T.

Looks strange, we'll get there no worries.

Now here we get two arguments where

we don't know exactly how they will look like.

So I will accept a second generic type here.

Simply by adding a comma in the angled brackets,

And then we just continue in the alphabet.

And therefor the second generic parameter or type

you might be using in a function typically is named U.

So we could say this is of type U.

Okay now what does this yield us?

Well a lot actually, as you see with this alone

if you hover over merge, typescript infers that

this function returns the intersection of T and U.

And we could of course also set this explicitly like this

but we don't even need to do that

because object assign returns an intersection and therefor

since we returned a result of object assign,

typescript automatically understands

that this function returns the intersection.

So how is this helpful then?

Well if we now hover over merged object

we see that now with this alone

typescript understands that what we store

in merged object is the intersection of these

two object types, because it sees that we're

passing in these objects, which are of these

object types it infers.

Name string and age number.

And that our function returns the intersection.

Why is it able to infer this now and

not with object which we had before?

Because object is highly unspecific type.

We say any object and yes therefor typescript

is able to infer that we return

the intersection of object and object.

But the intersection of two unknown objects

is just a new unknown object which doesn't

offer any additional type information to typescript.

With generic types, what we're telling typescript

is that, these two parameters can and often will be

of different types and therefor typescript

is able to understand that we're not just working

with some random object type, but that we will get

different type data here.

And that this function overall

will return the intersection of that data.

And therefor typescript is able to understand that

what we store in here in merged object

is such intersect the data of these two inputs.

Because now we're not just dealing with

some unknown objects here but with very specific types.

And therefor now if I console log merged object age here

this works without errors as you can tell.

Here I'm printing 30 because of generic types.

We're giving typescript the extra information

that we don't know exactly the types will be

sure, there will be objects here we can tell that.

But we don't know if its an object with

a name key, with a age key, with a hobbies key.

We don't know and we don't care, we don't care

about the exact object here, we don't want

to specify that this has to be of this type.

Because then all of a sudden if I

add hobbies in there, we would have a problem.

So I don't want to be that restrictive.

I just want to say this is of any type

which I don't care about but its most likely

a different type then of this one here.

And if it would be the same that would be fine too.

But typescript understands that we do

have specific types here for these two parameters

and that we return the intersection of them.

Instead of just having any unspecific object here.

Now specifically the magic here is not

just that we tell typescript that

we got two different types here.

But that these types are not set in stone

when we define this function, but they

are set dynamically when we call the function.

So here we're calling the function

and typescript infers the types for the two arguments.

For T, it basically fills in an object type

with an object with a name property which holds a string

and a hobbies property which holds an array of strings.

And for U it fills in a type of type object

with age property where age is of type number.

Now when we call this function again in another line

and we pass in different objects and

I store this in a new constant with a new name,

then of course, different types are filled in

for T and U for this function call.

You can also specifically tell typescript

which types it should fill in by adding

angled brackets after the

function name when you call it

and then you would fill

in your own types for T and U.

We could tell typescript that T should be of type string

for this function call and U should

be of type number but then of course typescript

would complain about the

concrete values we're passing in here.

Because this clearly is not a string and

if we would fix this, this clearly

would not be of type number.

So here we could be very specific and say well,

the first argument or the type T to be precise

for this function call here will be an object type

where we have a name property which is of type string

and a hobbies property which is of type string array.

And the concrete type for U, for this function call

will be an object where we have an age property

which should be of type number.

And now we would be good and no errors

would be there anymore and this would work.

But this is redundant, you can absolutely

do that and it is important to understand

that this is in the end what generics are all about

that you can fill in different concrete types

for different function calls.

But we don't need to do that here because

typescript simply infers the types of the values

we're passing as arguments here.

And then places in the inferred types

for T and U for this function call.

That's how generics work behind the scenes in the end.

