So we got the basics
about generics down hopefully,
now let's dive a bit deeper into constraints,
or into one specific type of constraint,
which you can add.
For that I'll trade yet another function,
a generic function, which I' ll name extractAndConvert.
The idea of this function here is that we get
an object as a first argument,
and the second parameter is,
in the end, a key.
Now I want to return the value for that key in the object,
which we can do with this default JavaScript notation.
Using the square brackets
to exe as a property in a object,
but that's nothing TypeScript specific,
that's Vanilla JavaScript again.
Now therefore here we could say
that here we want to have an object,
and for the key we want to have a string, let's say.
Now here I'm getting an error, though,
because what we don't know here in the end,
is whether the object we're getting here
really will have that key.
That's the end what TypeScript is telling us
with this strange error.
For example here,
I could console log the result of calling this
with let's say, an empty object and then name.
And here by the way I'm calling this extractAndConvert,
because I want to call this without console log
and simply say Value, colon, plus.
But that's just a side note
I'm returning us stray in the end with that retrieved data.
But the main problem here is,
I could call it like this
and it would pass in an object as a first parameter,
and then a string as a second.
But correctly, TypeScript tells me
that in the end it's not guaranteed
that this key exists in this object.
Now to guarantee this, we can again use generic types here.
We could say we've got a type T,
and that will be our object here.
We can say, extends object.
But we also gotta type U.
Our key here let's say, which in the end,
has to be a key of our T-type though.
So of this object, we wanna guarantee
that what we get here as a second parameter as a key
is a property of that first type.
And for that we can say extends key of T.
And now you see the error is gone here,
and instead I got the error down there,
because now I'm informing TypeScript here,
that the first parameter should be any kind of object,
and the second parameter
should be any kind of key in that object.
And here, yes we're passing in any kind of object,
but we don't have a name key in there.
This error will only go away as soon as I add a name key.
So this is all the times for we can use generic types for
with this keyoff keyword here also, to tell TypeScript
that we want to ensure that we have this correct structure,
and that's of course really useful,
because it allows us to ensure
that we don't make dumb mistakes,
where we try to call this function, which in the end,
we tried to exe as a property that doesn't exist.
So this works.
But if I try to exe as 'age' here,
I again get an error, for example.
So let's switch this back to 'name' therefore.
