Okay, enough about generic functions.

We will always use them throughout this course,

all the course project.

So that should be getting clearer and clearer,

the more we work with it.

The general idea hopefully is clear by now already.

Generic functions aren't everything we can use though,

we've also got generic classes

and therefore, lets see

how we would create such a generic class

and why we could do that,

why that could be useful for us.

We could be creating a storage class here.

A class lets say, which has a private property data.

Which in the end will hold an array of data.

Then it has an addItem method,

which takes our item and that should be added to data

with push, let's say.

And we have a removeItem method,

which takes our item,

where we could say this.data.splice

and then we just need to get the indexOff(item) here

and splice one element.

This is how we can remove an element from an array.

And of course getItems,

where return, let's say a copy of this.data,

like that with the spread operator you learned about.

Now we can do that

and we are getting a bunch of errors here.

We are getting a bunch of errors,

now for one because the name Storage is a reserved name,

so let's name it Datastorage.

That's easy to get rid of.

Now we also get an error here

because we are not saying anything about

the kind of data we are storing,

and which type item has here.

And that's exactly where we can turn this into generic class

because you might not care about the type of data.

We want to make sure it's uniform data,

so it's either just strings,

or just numbers, or just objects.

But other than that, I don't care about it.

So here we could turn this into generic class,

by adding angle brackets after the class name

and then again T, U, whatever you want to use

as an identifier, and add this here as a generic type.

Now here we can say,

this here is an array of type T,

so it stores data of that generic type in it.

Therefore, here we add such data,

and we try to remove such data here.

And therefore, here we get items correctly is inferred

to return an array of generic types.

And now we can create different storage's,

we can have our sting or our textStorage here,

by calling new DataStorage, setting that generic type

to type string here.

And then here in textStorage,

I can call addItem,

and if I try to add a number I get an error

because I am saying that this will be

a DataStorage which only stores stings.

So, I can indeed store Max here, and maybe also store Manu,

and then call textStorage.removeItem('Max')

and then console.log.textStorage.getItems.

And this should all work if we save that

because it's a generic type,

and indeed at the end we just have Manu in there.

So this would be one simple generic class we can create.

Now, why would we build such a generic class?

Well just as I said,

because maybe we don't just want to store texts,

I might also want to store some numbers

in a different data storage.

So then I could create such a DataStorage,

and setting this to number ensures that now

we can only add numbers to that storage.

Of course, we could also set up a storage

where we allow both by using a union type.

So, we've got full flexibility there,

but we give type some extra information,

that makes this both a flexible

and still strongly typed class.

Just as we had with functions.

Really flexible and still perfect types support.

That's the whole idea behind generic types.

So, here we can do that with the DataStorage class

by storing strings,

or by storing numbers,

or whatever we want.

We'll have one problem about our dataStorage class though.

Let's say here I have my object storage,

now I can create new DataStorage

and say in there I want to store objects, right,

I want to store objects

and of course we can go to object storage and add an item.

Let's say an object I have names Max in there.

Let's also store another object,

where I store Manu.

Then, let's say we are doing some stuff in our code

and then at a later point of time here,

I will want to remove the item,

I want to remove the item with name: 'Manu' here.

And then, I want to console.log.objStorage.getItems.

Like that.

If we save that,

we see we've got an object in there that's Max.

So that looks good right.

Now, it's not really good.

Let's say here, I want to remove Max now,

so now we should have Manu left in the data storage.

Hence, if I reload, a well, it's still Max.

Now the problem is that we are working with objects here,

as you know objects in JavaScript are reference types.

Now, attach to find an additional resource,

which allows you to dive into reference.

Whereas primitive values,

here I assume you know the difference

because it is a core JavaScript thing,

totally unrelated to typescript.

Here the problem is,

the way our class is built

with this logic on how data is removed and identified,

we are not really doing a good job

when we work with non-primitive values.

So, when we work with objects or arrays,

because indexOf, if we pass in an object here,

it will not work because technically this is a new object.

It might look like this one but it doesn't work

because this technically is a brand new object in memory

and has a different address.

And indeed here, JavaScript will look for the address

and basically not find it, so what it then does is

it removes the last element in the array here,

because this in the end returns -1.

IndexOf returns -1 even if it doesn't find anything.

Which means it starts at the end of the array,

that's normal Javascript behavior

and removes the last element of the array.

That's why it worked for Manu,

it didn't really work it accidentally worked,

but why it does not work for Max,

we are always removing

the last element of the array for now,

since we can't identify it.

Now, one work around to at least fix that is

to check if we find our item,

so we can check if this code here,

if that is equal to -1, which means we did not find it.

Then we can return

and make sure we don't accidentally remove the wrong item.

But of course now we just fixed that bar,

but we still don't have this inner state

where it would work with objects.

Well the only way it could work with objects,

is if we pass the exact same object again.

So here if I had my max object stored in a constant,

like this, and in here I pass the max object.

And I do the same here, then I am really using the same,

the exact same object, the exact same object in memory,

and therefore, now it would work.

This would be the only way to make this work.

So therefore, here, the better idea might be to make sure

that this really only works with primitive values.

So, we could say that T extends string,

number, maybe all the boolean's adds on.

So now we basically say that DataStorage

should only work with these types.

Therefore objects are not allowed anymore.

This might be better here because,

we would need a more specialized DataStorage,

which then probably only works with objects in turn,

and not with primitive values.

To fine tune our retrieval logic here,

to maybe check for some iD in the item

that should be removed.

The way it works here,

it really only works for primitive types,

so setting such a constraint is definitely a good idea.

And with that if we saved it, after commenting this out,

it again works, of course.

Now needless to say, hopefully,

that of course you could have more than one

generic type here as well.

You are not limited to one type

when you work with classes.

And you can also have methods,

which have their own generic types instead of classes.

So you could introduce new generic types in class methods,

if you have some generic type,

which only is needed in a certain method,

and not in the entire class.

So you are really flexible there.

You can use constraints everywhere

and in general, generic types are there

to make your life easier

and to give you that perfect combination

of full flexibility.

We can use any primitive value you want here

and type safety,

because we know perfectly well

what is stored in this DataStorage

and what is stored in this DataStorage.

So this combination is the awesome thing

generic types give us.

