Speaking of more generic types,

as a little bonus, you could say,

I wanna point your direction at a couple of built-in types.

Typescript ships with, which utilize generic types

or which are generic types,

that give us certain utility functionalities.

So just a little bonus here,

and from time to time

these special types might come in handy.

Now, attached you'll find a link

to the full documentation of all the built-in utility types.

Here, I just wanna give you a few examples.

Now just as all these type things,

these types only exist in types of the world

and therefore, only prior to compilation.

But during this compilation step,

they can give you extra type safety or extra flexibility.

For example, there is the built-in partial type.

Let's say we have a new type, and you interface which

we will find or a custom type really doesn't matter,

CourseGoal.

The CourseGoal does have a title,

which should be a string and let's say a description,

which should all be a string.

Maybe we also have completeUntil property, which is a Date.

Now we wanna have a function, let's say,

createCourseGoal, which creates us such an object.

Of course, we could have created that class as well.

But we have such a function because in that function,

we might be drawing in some data from a database,

or whatever it is.

So we have this function.

And in the end here,

I want to get my title, which is a string,

I might get my description, which is a string,

and I hopefully get my date, which is a Date.

Now in that function, of course, we could return an object

but we just set up all these things.

So where we set title to title, description to description

and completeUntil to date.

We could do all of that and if we then define that this

function will always return a CourseGoal,

we would have a correctly setup function.

Now for some reason let's say we're

not doing it like this though,

we're not doing this all in one step.

Instead, what I wanna do is,

I wanna start by creating a variable here,

which holds an empty object.

And then step by step, I want to add my title here.

I want to add my description here.

And I want to add my date here.

Now here I'm getting errors because of course,

I can't set title this is not a property of this object.

And while this works in vanilla JavaScript,

TypeScript doesn't really like that on the fly adding here.

So we might wanna say that this should be of type

CourseGoal here.

Now, TypeScript is not complaining about this,

but about the fact that this is an empty object,

which clearly is not fitting our type here.

So in the end, I want to return it

and I want to add all these things step by step,

maybe because we have extra validation before each step,

and therefore one to add it like this.

Now here's where the partial type can come in handy.

We could say the CourseGoal here should be a partial type,

which in the end,

thanks to generic types will hold a courseGoal.

Now what this does is it tells TypeScript that,

this is an object which in the end will be a courseGoal.

But initially, partial kind of wraps our own type,

and changes it to a type where all these properties

are optional.

That's what partial does one of these built-in types,

Typescript ships with.

So it turns this into a type, which is also an object type,

where all the properties are optional.

Therefore, we can set this to an empty object initially,

and still add all these things step by step.

The only problem is that in the end,

we can't return this because now it's still of type

partial CourseGoal, and not of type CourseGoal.

We can fix this by converting this to courseGoal

with typecasting, because we know at this point of time,

we will have added all the data.

So it will be a real courseGoal and not a partial one.

And of course, this is a bit made up.

But you could have scenarios like this,

where you want to temporarily switch

one of your object types,

one of your interfaces to be optional only.

To make sure that all the properties in there

can be optional only temporarily.

And then the partial type would allow you to do that.

And never built-in utility type which you have

is the read only type that can all be very useful.

Let's say we have an array of names.

And in there I got Max and Sports.

Now, correctly TypeScript

infers that this is a string array.

Now what can we do?

We can of course push

Manu on there,

and probably I should change this to Anna not sports

to have a name in there.

So this works.

Now let's say however,

I want to make sure that this is a locked array.

We can't add more here.

And we can always add more here,

but at least I want Typescript to yell at me if I try it.

Well, that's where we can use the read only type,

we could set this to read only string array.

With that we tell TypeScript,

well, what we store here is, it's an array of strings.

But it's also an array of strings, which is read only.

So when we try to add something with push,

or if we try to remove something with pop,

we get errors,

because we're not allowed to do these things

with this array.

And this is not limited to arrays by the way,

you can also use read only on an object.

For example, to market as read only,

so that you are not allowed to change the properties

or add new properties to this object.

So this can also be very, very handy

and give you more flexibility or be more precise

about what you're aiming to do in your code.

Now, all these are just utility types

that only exist in TypeScript world.

So they're not compiled to anything.

But during compilation, they give you extra strictness,

or extra checks or skip certain checks

as we did it with partial.

Now you've got more than read only and partial.

And as I mentioned attached you find the documentation to a

full list of these utility types.

In certain scenarios, they can come in really handy,

and therefore, I definitely did not want

to hide them from you.

But instead, you should be aware of them so that

you can use them when you need to lock something down,

or as in the case of partial open anything up

or with all the other ones which I didn't discuss here,

if you've got some other operation which can be enhanced

with one of these built-in utility types.

And these utility types are all generic,

because what they do is

they take some other value which is of any type

and do something with it.

They set everything to optional, they lock it down,

not caring about whether this is an array or object

or an array of strings, array of numbers, and so on.

That's why these are generic.

And together with the upper built-in generics we saw earlier

and your own generics.

This now hopefully all again helps you understand

why generics can be useful in why they exist.

