Now one common source of confusion,

I want to clarify here, is the difference

between Generics and Union types.

Why could you confuse these two?

Well, for example, our data storage here.

If we're accepting Generic types

based on these types, we could also

rewrite that to just say,

"Well, we want to store strings,

or numbers, or Booleans in here, right?"

So, we could store that or to be precise,

wrap this in parentheses so that we say

either of these types as an array.

Then here, of course, we could also say,

"Well, what we get here when we

add an item is either a string,

a number, or a Boolean,

when we remove it it's the same."

Now, what's the problem with this approach?

On first sight, it might look like it achieves the same,

but, it actually does something totally different.

What we're saying here is,

we're storing any kind of data in there

as long as it's either an array

of strings, numbers or Booleans,

and we're also then adding any kind of data here,

either a string, number or a Boolean,

and the same for removing.

Now, we already have some errors down there, of course,

because I can't initialize this in a generic way anymore.

But, other than that it works.

Now, the problem, however, is

for one up here, we're not saying

this is either an array of strings,

or an array of numbers, or an array of Booleans.

This says, we have an array

which can have strings, numbers and Booleans mixed.

So if you would want to say either

an array of strings, or an array of numbers,

we would have to say

string array, number array, or Boolean array.

Well, we can do that, but now we have a problem here.

Now, we're adding a string, a number or a Boolean,

but depending on what we actually

set this data array to be, either a number array,

or a Boolean array, or a string array,

we're not allowed to add a number,

or a Boolean or a string.

If we set this to be a string array

then we can't add a number here.

Yet, here I am fine with any parameter

as long as it is a number, Boolean, or a string.

So, the problem is here with Union types.

We accept any of these values every time

this method gets called, or this method.

So, we're not saying,

"Hey, whenever we're working with this class,

you have to decide for one type and stick to it,

instead we're saying,

whenever you're calling this method

you're free to use any of these types.

That's exactly not what we want here.

If I revert this to the previous setup

where we used generic types

then we got a different setup.

Here, we say you have to choose once

which kind of data you want to store

and then you're only allowed to

add that exact type of data.

So here if I add a number, for example,

I get an error

because that's not a string

and it shows that I only want to

manage strings here when I set the generic type.

That's the difference between union types and generic types.

Union types can be great if you want

to have a function which you can

call with one of these types every time you call it.

Generic types are great if you want to

lock in a certain type.

Use the same type throughout the entire

class instance you create.

Use the same type throughout the entire function.

That's where you want the generic type.

You want union types when you are

flexible to have a different type

with every method call, with every function call.

Then, you can use union types.

Generic types lock in a type.

