Now there's one last special type
I wanna introduce you to,
a type that might look weird at first,
but that can be very useful.
It's the unknown type
and it's typically used in conjunction with functions.
Let's say we have a process function,
which should process some value
that might be retrieved from a database,
from a backend server, from an API,
from a file, anything like this.
We, the developer, might not know
in detail what this value will look like in advance
because we might have different potential data sources
that could be used by our program.
In such a scenario, we could of course, create a union type
that lists all the potential values
we might be getting here,
all the potential types of values we might be working with.
And that would be a good solution,
but we might not even know
which kinds of values we might eventually get.
In that case, we could use the any type,
but of course with that, anything is allowed
without any restrictions.
And that's where the unknown type comes into play.
It's a bit like any, but then it's not.
And the important difference is that
if you have the any type,
you can use this value in any way you want
and you'll never get an error.
I can try to call a log method on val
and TypeScript won't complain
because any does allow anything.
You are basically back to vanilla JavaScript with that.
With unknown, that's different.
Now I'm getting an error
that val might not have a log method in the end,
that it is of type unknown.
And what unknown does is it forces you, the developer,
to add some extra if checks
before you use the received value in a certain place.
For example, here you could add a if check
and check if type of val is equal to object,
which is a type built into JavaScript
because keep in mind,
the type of operator is a JavaScript operator
to check the type of something at runtime.
An object is then one of the types JavaScript knows
and if val is truthy,
for example, with two exclamation marks
to check that it's not falsy,
and if there is a log property
in val with the in operator,
which is also standard JavaScript,
all this here is standard JavaScript.
And if type of val.log is equal to function,
which is another type JavaScript knows.
Now that's a pretty complex if check,
but if we perform this if check,
we can safely call log in there.
As you see, the error now went away.
And again, this is a pretty complex example here,
pretty complex code.
You could try to check this in other ways.
My main point here is that unknown forces you
to perform checks like this.
Unknown forces you to make sure
that you can safely execute this code
by checking for a bunch of conditions,
in this case here, before we run this code
so that you can't run into a runtime error.
With any, all this here would not be required.
You could just call val.log like this,
but if this does not turn out to be an object,
if it's null or anything like that,
you'd get a runtime error.
With unknown, you can't get an unknown error with this code
because this code here only executes if val is an object,
if it is not null, if it has a log property
and if that property is a function.
And that's the idea behind unknown.
It's definitely a bit of a more advanced types,
can be very useful if you're writing very generic code,
if you're writing library code
where you might not know in advance
how your code is going to be used
and with which kind of values.
In such cases, unknown can be very useful.
It is a bit more advanced, but it is a commonly used type
and therefore, an essential type of TypeScript.
Now, when it comes to type narrowing,
which is again, what we're doing here in the end,
we're narrowing down val
to be an object with a log method.
When it comes to that, as mentioned,
that is also something we'll explore again
later in the course in a more general way.
But it is important to understand
that TypeScript does evaluate the overall code base
to derive the type of val in this place here
and that the unknown type is a pretty useful type
in situations where you don't know
with which kind of value you are going to work.
