[Maximilian Schwarzmuller] Now one last feature,

one last operator actually,

which I want to cover in this section here

is the knowledge coalescing operator,

the double question mark operator.

Now it's important to note

that this operator is actually not TypeScript specific,

standard modern JavaScript also supports it.

Nonetheless, it's an interesting operator

also when using TypeScript.

For that, let's say we have some input,

for example, some user input,

which could be an empty string.

It could also be null if the user did not provide

any value at all.

So if they did not submit an empty input field

and therefore provide an empty string, for example,

but they did not submit data at all,

if you're building an application and that might happen.

Or of course it might be a string

with some text in it, some characters in it.

And of course this is again, still a made up example

to dive into these core features.

Now, what's the purpose of knowledge coalescing

of this operator?

Well, let's say you have some other constant

or variable that depends on this input

and depending on whether the input is null or not,

you might want to assign a different value

to this constant.

For example, we could have a Boolean here did provide input,

and that should be false if input is null,

but it should be true if input is an empty string

because the user did submit input, it's just empty,

or if it's a string with characters.

And what you could try to do is use input

and then use the logical OR operator,

the double pipe symbols here,

and assign an alternative fallback value.

That might be a little trick you might know

from JavaScript.

So we could say here,

we either have a value here in input

or we set did provide input to false,

so did provide input in this case here,

therefore is always of type false

because TypeScript understands

that input in this demo here is hardcoded and set to null,

and therefore this here will always yield false.

Now watch what happens though if I change

input to an empty string.

In that case, TypeScript for one is not able

to determine whether it's false or a string

because it can't look into that string.

But we as a developer actually can know

that in that case here did provide input,

actually will hold false as a value.

Because when using this trick,

this shortcut here in JavaScript

of using the logical OR operator to assign a value,

this operator will check whether the left side is falsy,

not false, but falsy, which is a JavaScript concept.

And if the value here is falsy

and the value is falsy, if it's false or null or undefined

or zero as a number

or an empty string as a string, which is the case here.

So this is a falsy value that's fed into input

or that's fed to the left side here.

And in that case, the OR operator

will assign the right side here.

That's why false would be stored in did provide input

in this case when providing an empty string.

But what if you actually want this to be set to true

if you got a string, no matter if it's empty or not?

Well that's now finally

where this knowledge coalescing operator can help you.

If you replace the double pipe here, the OR operator

with two question marks,

you get kind of the similar behavior.

But then again, you don't

because with this operator used

the check performed by JavaScript

and therefore also TypeScript will be a bit different.

This operator just checks whether the left side of it,

so the value stored in input is null or undefined.

And it only looks for that.

It does not look for falsy values.

It just looks for null or undefined.

And if it finds null or undefined,

then the value on the right side is stored in this constant

is returned by this expression.

But in this case here where we have an empty string,

this input is actually not null or undefined,

therefore, the fallback value will not be used.

And instead the value here in input will be kept around.

And you can prove that

if you use the browser developer tools

and you paste that code in there

because it works in just JavaScript as well,

it's not TypeScript specific.

You will see that an empty string was output here,

not undefined, that's something else,

but instead this is the output of console log here,

an empty string.

So the empty string was stored as a value and input.

If on the other hand I were to repeat that code,

but used this OR operator as I showed you before,

you see false output here.

And that's why this operator can be very useful.

And again, it's not TypeScript specific,

but it can of course also be used in TypeScript code.

And it is a JavaScript feature that's often overlooked

by many developers.

Therefore, I also wanted to include it here.

