So how can you configure
Typescript's behavior?
Well, you typically do it on a per project basis.
So here I am in a super simple new project,
which has one source code file,
but it doesn't matter if it has one
or dozens or hundreds of files.
And I can configure
how TypeScript will behave in this project folder
and its sub-folders
by creating a TypeScript configuration file,
which will then be picked up by the TypeScript compiler
and by my IDE, by Visual Studio Code, for example.
And you can quickly create
such a TypeScript configuration file by running tsc,
so this compiler, --init.
By running this special command, if you hit Enter,
a tsconfig.json file will be created,
and this file allows you to configure Typescript's behavior.
Now, the default file which is created
contains actually a list of all the options you can set.
Most of them commented out
with a short explanation here on the right,
so that you at least get a brief introduction
into the option, what the option does.
Now, of course,
it's a pretty long list of potential settings you have here,
and those explanations on the right
might not always be super clear.
Now, I will guide you through
some of the most important settings throughout this section,
but I will also say right away
that many of these options don't matter to you.
The default settings are often fine.
Some options are for specific use cases,
like working with mono repos,
and some options are simply niche
or exist for historical reasons.
So most options can be ignored,
and you really don't need to understand them,
unless you are in a situation
where you must tweak your TypeScript behavior
in a certain way.
Now, if you wanna learn more about this configuration file
and about all these options, though,
the official documentation,
and specifically there, the TSConfig Reference page,
will be helpful
because there you can learn everything
about all these options,
about all the niche options, how they work,
what they do, why they exist, with examples, and so on.
So that's a great place to dive super deep,
but as mentioned, in most cases,
you won't need to do that,
and instead, I'll walk you through
the most important settings in the next lectures.
