So what's this type checking part all about?
Well, this type checking part contains a bunch of settings
that allow you to control in detail how strict TypeScript is
and about which kind of potential errors it will complain.
If you set strict to true, which is the default,
you turn on most of this settings,
so you got a pretty strict type checker then,
which actually does not allow a lot of things.
For example, with strict set to true,
if you have a function ad which accepts two parameters
like this, you will see I'm getting errors here for a and b
and if you recall,
this was actually not the case earlier in the course.
There, I was getting a warning essentially
that a and b are of type any,
but I was not getting an error.
Now I do because my IDE picks up this tsconfig file
and their strict is set to true and with strict set to true,
this no implicit any setting is for example,
also set to true.
We could also individually set this to true,
but that's not required
if you have strict already set to true
and no implicit any for example,
which is the error this here is referring to in the end,
tells you that if you want a value to really be of type any,
which is typically not recommended,
but if you want it to be of type any,
you should explicitly set it to that.
This ensures that you're not accidentally
working with some values of type any
in places where you simply forgot to set a type.
So that's what this setting does for example,
and as mentioned, it is included in strict true.
We also got other settings like strict null checks,
which ensures that you can't accidentally
work with a value that might be null.
We saw that in action earlier already actually,
and a bunch of other settings
where these descriptions on the right here
should also help you understand
which specific scenarios they handle,
or which specific errors might be caught here.
Therefore, it is recommended for most TypeScript project
to set strict to true
because by having a very strict type checker,
you get the most benefits out of TypeScript
because it then really forces you to write good code
and to not have these tiny potential errors in your code,
even though it can sometimes be annoying
that you're getting a lot of errors,
but ultimately, it should help you write better code
and that's there for the configuration file.
Obviously, I only touched on a few of these options
because there simply are way too many and as mentioned,
most of them are simply pretty niche and advanced
and if they're needed, they're typically set for you
because typically, you'll be using a project setup
where this is configured for you
and where you then just might want to tweak
the strictness of TypeScript in that project
and maybe also the target.
