For this section
and for this demo project here,
I am in a brand new empty project folder.
And the first thing I'll do here
is that I'll run tsc --init
to create such a tsconfig.json file
about which you also learned
in the previous lectures and sections.
This file will allow us to run the tsc command
to compile all the files that exist in this project folder
so that we don't have to target files individually.
For this basic project, it actually doesn't matter too much,
but since we learned about this configuration file
and this setup, I also wanna use it here.
Now, in this tsconfig.json file,
I'll change the target to ES2022.
You can, of course, pick any target you want
and besides that, I'll keep all the default settings,
whichever that may be
at the point of time you are watching the video.
They will be all right.
Most importantly, the strict setting here should be set
to true to make sure that strict type checking is enabled.
And with that, we can build our calculator
and I'll store the code in a calculator.ts file,
.ts, of course, because we'll write TypeScript code.
Well, and now the question is
how this calculator should work.
And, of course, there would be different ways
of building it.
You could also build it such that it's interactive
and allows users to enter values
but here, I'll keep it very simple.
I'll hard code all the values into the code
and I'll focus on simply calculating investment amounts
at the end of different years.
So my idea in the end is to have a function,
calculateInvestment, let's say,
into which I can pass some data, some investment data,
some data that describes my investment strategy.
And that data should, for example,
be the initial amount I wanna invest,
the annual contribution.
So how much extra money is poured
into this investment every year,
the expected return rate for every year
and the duration, So how long I wanna keep that investment
and how long I wanna contribute to it, so to say.
These four pieces of information should be passed
as an input to calculateInvestment.
And then I expect to get back a return value,
which should be an array of investment results.
So an array of objects, for example,
but it could be structured in any way
where every individual result describes one year,
so that I got my total amount invested
and the amount it's worth at the end
of the first year in the first entry of this array.
And then the same data for the second year
in the second entry, and so on.
That's my idea here.
Well, and then I wanna add another function,
printResults, where I can pass my results
as a value to it.
And that should be this result array that is produced
by calculateInvestment.
And in here, I then wanna print, output, the result data
and maybe output it across multiple lines
to make it a bit easier to read.
Well, and then I wanna call calculateInvestment
with my data.
So with any kind of data here,
and I wanna get back my results,
and then, of course, call printResults
and pass the results to that function to output them.
That's, in the end, the entire code.
It's not super complex, but that's, in the end,
the demo application I wanna build here.
And you can now definitely try building this
on your own first without my help.
You can try coming up with some logic
to derive these results.
And most importantly, you should try to come up
with some type definitions, type annotations
wherever they may be needed
so that you built this project on your own.
In the next lectures, we'll then build it together.
