So let's build this project together now,
and there would be different ways of approaching this.
I'll start with that data that's passed
to calculate investment,
and I wanna set up a type for that data.
Now, I did mention
that it's these four pieces of information
that should be fed into calculate investment,
and therefore we could of course,
simply accept four parameters here instead of one.
So we could expect the initial amount,
which could be a number as a first parameter,
then the annual contribution, which could also be a number
as a second parameter and so on.
But of course, we would end up
with a relatively long parameter list.
And when calling that function, we would have to make sure
that we pass the arguments in the right order
to this function,
and therefore all instead go for a single parameter,
which should be an object,
which then groups all this information here together.
And therefore all start by describing such a object type
by using that type alias feature
provided by TypeScript to set up a custom type.
And I'll name my type investment data,
though the name of course is totally up to you.
And all store an object type definition under that alias.
So here I'm not creating a new object value.
That's not what I'm doing here.
Instead, I'm creating a new object type
because we're on the right side of an equal sign
after using the type keyword.
So we're in TypeScript world here.
We're defining a type, not a value, that's important.
And this object type, which I'll define here,
should have these fields I listed up here an initial amount,
which in my case will be a number.
Then an annual contribution,
which should also be a number
and expected return or return rate,
however you want to call it,
which I guess makes also sense if it's a number,
and a duration in years, which therefore all is a number.
And it makes sense
that we're dealing with a bunch of numbers here
because it's all about calculating
some investment amount here
and naturally that involves working with numbers.
Of course, you'll learn about other types as well,
like string or boolean,
which might be helpful in other projects,
but here it's number,
well and data.
This parameter here on the calculate investment function,
that's now of type investment data,
and I'll make that clear
by adding this type annotation here.
Now, just to be very clear,
you could of course also grab this object type definition
and define it in line,
so to say hereafter this colon like this.
That would be a perfectly valid way
of setting up this type definition as well.
Now, by using it like this, you would not take advantage
of the type alias feature,
but instead define the type
right in the place where you need it.
There is nothing wrong with this approach,
but of course it makes this function a bit harder to read,
I would argue, and if you ever needed
to use this type somewhere else,
you would have to copy and paste it.
For that reason, I'll instead outsource it
into this custom type alias
or into this custom type here to be precise.
Okay, with that, I got this parameter set up.
Now we can start working on the logic
that should go into calculate investment.
