Okay, so now with that,
I have set up this input data
or the input data type to be precise.
Next, I wanna set up the output data type.
Now, as I mentioned,
calculate investment should return an array
of result objects or something like this.
Therefore, I'll start by actually defining the shape
of such an investment result entry,
or however you want to call it.
Here, I'll just name it investment result.
And then again, in my case here should be an object
because here I wanna describe the result
of the investment at the end of every year.
So for every year I wanna create such an object.
I want to have all the data
that belongs to a year grouped together in an object.
Hence I'm going for a number object type here.
And there in this investment result object,
I then want to have a year identifier, you could say,
and that actually should be of type string, in my case.
You could also go for number, of course,
to have one for the year one,
two for the year two, and so on.
But here I'll go for a string.
Then I want to have the total amount
at the end of that year, and that should be a number.
I wanna have the total contributions
up to the end of this year,
so including the contribution that belongs to this year
and all prior contributions.
So that should also be a number.
And I wanna have the total interest earned,
which also should be a number, like this.
And calculate investment should now yield an array
of such investment result objects.
So, we can add this type annotation here
to describe the return type of this function
and use investment result array here.
And of course, I'm getting an error now
because at the moment,
this function is not returning this kind of result yet,
but we'll change this soon.
And actually here, I'll even tweak this a bit,
and I didn't mention this before,
so you probably did not do that, and that's absolutely fine.
But here I'll actually use a union type
and return either such an array
of investment results or a string,
and I wanna return a string
if some invalid investment data has been fed
into this function.
For example, if a duration of zero would've been set up,
then instead of throwing an error,
I wanna return some text, some error message as a string
here in calculate investment.
Hence, I'm using such a union type.
And again, to save some space here,
I'll actually outsource this into a custom type.
I'll assign a type alias, so to say,
and I'll name it calculation result.
That's my type alias, and that will be this union type.
So therefore, calculate investment will return a value
of type calculation result.
But we still get an error
because currently we're not returning anything.
And therefore, the next step is to work on that logic
that belongs to this calculate investment function here.
