So let's use these functions

which we built here.

Let's use the calculate investment function here,

and for that, we need to pass some data to it.

And that data should be of type investment data.

So it should be an object that has this shape.

Therefore, I'll add a new constant here, investment data,

which should be of type investment data.

And I'm adding an explicit type assignment here

so that TypeScript forces me

to pass the right values into this object.

You wouldn't have to add it here,

TypeScript would then infer the type.

But adding it makes sure that we get an error

as long as we haven't passed the right kind of data

into this object.

And then we have to,

well, add data for these four properties.

Like for the initial amount,

which could be 1000 or 5,000 or anything like that.

Then for the annual contribution, which could be 500.

The expected return rate, which could be 0.08

for 8% per year.

And the duration, which could be 10 years.

And it's now this investment data

that's passed as an argument, as a value

to calculate investment like this.

Well, and that should then yield some results,

which are of type calculation result,

which we can output with print results.

And with all that done, we wrote all the code

using some of those

essential TypeScript features you learn about

that is required here

to hopefully calculate our investment results here.

Now, to give this a try,

we can run tsc to compile this file,

and we don't need to target the file

since we have such a tsconfig.json file in the project.

So running the compiler like this should work.

And it did, it added this JavaScript file.

And if we take a look at this JavaScript file,

we can see that it,

of course, contains pretty much the same code.

It would be kind of strange if it didn't,

but it contains the same code

without all these type annotations.

That's the one important difference in the end.

But now we can run this by running node calculator.js,

and this will now output this data.

And you can see that we get per year data

with the different results for the different years.

And of course, this year is then the end result

at the end of this 10 year time horizon,

which I have set up here.

So here we can see that if we invested

$5,000, let's say initially,

and then 500 per year,

so 10,000 overall,

if we did that, then at the end of year 10,

we would have a total amount of $18,000, for example.

And of course, you could now rerun this

with different numbers, adjust it in any way you want,

and maybe also even add more features to it

if you feel like it.

But that's a basic example

of how we can use sum TypeScript features

in a basic node JS application.

