Let's stick to functions.

Another nice feature which is available in modern JavaScript

is that you can assign default arguments

to function parameters.

Let's say here in our add function,

for some reason, we wanted a default value for b.

So we know we want to be able to add two numbers together.

But in case you call this function with only one number,

we'll assume a default for the second argument,

or for the second parameter.

We can do so by adding a equal sign here

in the parameter list and then setting our default value.

Which of course has to match our type.

For example, one or whatever the default should be.

And now this enables us to call this function

with only one argument.

So I could call it like this and TypeScript

would not complain because it detects

that we have a default argument here

which is then taken for b.

And therefore here I get a output of six

because my default b is one and I add five, which makes six

Now, one important note about default arguments here.

They have to be last in the list.

If you assign a default argument to a, for example,

we'll have an issue, why?

Because default arguments are not skipped

when you call a function.

So if I call a function here with one argument,

then the arguments I'm passing in here

are passed to the parameters in the same order.

So calling the function with one argument,

five in this case, passes this one argument

to the first argument here in the parameter list.

And since the second argument

is not provided with a default, it's not optional.

And hence we provide no second argument at all.

So TypeScript, or JavaScript actually,

does not look at your function definition

and guess that you probably wanna skip the default argument

and provide your value to the non-default one.

Instead, it simply adheres to the order.

And therefore you should set defaults from the right.

So make sure that the parameters

for which you don't accept default arguments

come first before your default parameters.

