Lecture resources:
- https://academind.com/learn/javascript/reference-vs-primitive-values/
- 

We also got useful features related

to arrays an objects and how we can retrieve

the data that's stored in arrays and objects.

Now, for that, let's add a new array here,

let's say hobbies and that can be an array of strings.

Like sports and cooking here and now obviously

we can retrieve elements by index here,

like this for example.

But, you should know these basic JavaScript things.

Next Gen JavaScript, introduce a nice feature if we want

to extract all values of an array.

When could you need that?

Well let's say you have the active hobbies

and that's an array where I do have hiking as a hobby,

and now I want to add sports and cooking.

Now we can add an item to active hobbies by calling

push, by the way in case you're wondering how I can

push to a constant, keep in mind that arrays are objects

and objects are reference values.

When we push we change a memory but not the address.

If this doesn't tell you anything check the additional

resources I attached to this lecture regarding that topic,

so back to this example then, we can push here,

but push, if we push in the hobbies, we'll add hobbies

as a new array in the array, so as a new nested arrays.

Which types would actually detects it, it tells me that

if I want to add a string array

to an array of strings, that's not okay.

So instead push takes single values so we could

pass hobbies zero, actually push even takes an

unlimited amount of arguments so that we can push

multiple items in order at once like that.

But that's a bit cumbersome and that's where

the Spread Operator comes in.

It looks like this, it's three dots and yes this

looks strange but this is a valid JavaScript Operator

supported by [Hypescript?] and after that we specify

or we point at the array or object as you will also learn,

that we want to spread.

So what this does is, it tells JavaScript in the end

because that's a Vanilla JavaScript Operator

available in Modern JavaScript, so it tells JavaScript

to pull out all the elements after the array

and basically add them as a list of values,

so not as an array but a list of individual values

in the place where you used an Operator,

so here for example is a list of arguments

passed to push and now a place where you could use

that is directly when you create a new array.

There you can also spread an existing array into that array.

So basically whenever you need a comma separated list

of values, you can use the Spread Operator with

an array to get such a comma separated list.

That's the idea of the Spread Operator

and therefore it's really useful for pulling out

elements of an array.

The Spread Operator, all that it does not just exist

on arrays, it also exists on objects.

Let's say we have a person which has a name key,

Max and an h key which is 30

and now we want to create a copied person.

Now if we just assign a person like this,

what we're doing is actually we're copying the pointer

at this person object in memory

into this copy person constant.

And again, check my reference value resources attached

if that doesn't tell you much.

So, we're not really creating a copy of that object.

Now to create a real copy, we can use the

spread operator with objects.

We create a new object with curly braces

and then we use the Spread Operator, three dots

with our first object which you want to copy.

Now what this does is it pulls out all the elements

but of course here the elements are key value pairs

not single values like an array.

Here we got key value pairs.

So these key value pairs are pulled out of there

and then can be used anywhere where you need key

value pairs, which typically is a never object you

might be added them to.

So therefore, to this otherwise empty object,

the key value pairs of person are now added

and since we created a new object here,

and just add it to key value pairs,

we got a perfect copy of the original object

and not just of the pointer that

points to the object in memory.

