Kind of related to the spread operator
are rest parameters.
And for that, I'll again tweak my add function.
So I'll comment out all that code up here
so that nothing breaks.
And re-add my add function with any syntax you want
with the function key word as an arrow function,
whatever you want.
But now I wanna have a special function.
I don't want to restrict it to two values,
I want to be able to add as many values
as a user passes in.
So that we can basically call add like this,
five, ten, two, three dot seven, and so on,
with as many values as you want.
If you would want to call it with 10 values,
that should also be possible.
Now of course however, right now it's not possible
as you can clearly see.
Typescript is giving me an error,
and correctly so, because I'm accepting no arguments here.
Now of course I could accept for arguments here
and assign the correct types,
but what if I then call it with five.
As I said, I wanna be flexible.
That's where rest parameters come in.
In the place where you expect a list of values,
so not where you want to pass it,
but where you want to accept it as incoming values,
you can also use the three dots
and then any name of your choice, like numbers.
Now what this will do is,
it will merge all incoming parameters,
or generally the incoming list of values,
comma separated list of values into an array.
So numbers here will be an array,
but of course by default a type of any values,
so an array full of any values,
and that's not what we should do,
we should be more explicit.
And here we could say, "It will be a number array."
Like that.
So now we are defining the correct type
and now work with that numbers array.
Now we can sum that up in a couple of different ways.
We can work with a result variable
and then a four loop because numbers is an array.
So here we could loop through numbers
and add that to the result.
Or we use the reduce method which is available on arrays.
Reduce works such that it performs an operation
on every element in an array,
returns a result, and then adds these results together.
For that you provide a function to reduce
and then a starting value which here is zero.
And then this function which you pass
to reduce itself takes two arguments
and that's the current result you could say.
And it's the current value which we're looking at,
which will be each value of the array ones.
And then here you can return cuResult,
which for the first run will be that initial value here.
Plus curValue.
And if you do that reduce overall here will return a number.
So here we can overall return the result
of numbers reduced and hence the add variable,
or constant here, will in the end hold a function
which takes a couple of numbers, not an array of numbers.
But because of the rest parameters, a list of numbers,
which is then merged into an array inside of the function
and which returns the number in the end.
So then for now if we save everything,
it should all work and we see the result,
the sum of our little addition here.
So that's rest parameters,
a really useful feature for accepting
an unlimited amount of arguments.
And a couple of built in methods like the push method
work exactly that way.
You see, push here has this strange parameter definition.
Well that's exactly what we just learned.
Push here takes a couple of items for this array,
which is an array full of strings.
It takes a couple of strings.
And this does not mean it takes an array of strings,
but instead here wit the rest parameters,
a comma separated list of strings,
which ins out of porch is then merged into an array
and handled internally.
That is the rest parameters syntax.
You can even combine this with tuples by the way.
If you know you wanna support multiple arguments
but you know how many it will be,
so if it's not an unlimited list,
then you can also use a tuple type there.
And for example say, "I do accept my free numbers here."
And then I have to remove the fourth argument here of course
when calling the function.
Because now I'm pretty clear
that I want to get three arguments, which each are numbers.
So of course we could have just added three
standalone parameters here,
but this syntax might still be a bit shorter
or easier to set up than adding the free parameters.
It really depends on your application and your requirements.
Here I'll move away from that setup and be more generic
and accept as many arguments as I get
because for this function I am indeed able
to handle an infinite amount of arguments.
