Let's stick to arrays and objects.

Another important syntax,

which you'll see a lot in modern JavaScript

and also Typescript projects,

is array and object destructuring.

How does it work?

Well, let's start with our array which we got,

the hobbies array which got two hobbies.

Let's say you want to extract these two hobbies

and store them in variables or constants.

Of course, we can do that with

hobby one equal hobbies

for index zero,

which is the first element.

And the same maybe with hobby two for hobbies at index one.

This will pull out these two elements

and store them in constants.

It took us two lines of code,

and the more elements you want to retrieve,

the more lines of code it takes us.

Array destructuring allows us to shorten it.

With array destructuring,

which also works with let by the way not just with const,

you add square brackets on the left side of the equal sign,

which is an unusual place.

Haven't seen that before.

And on the right side you have the array,

which you want to destructure.

Now destructure really means

that you pull elements out of the array.

And here on the left side between these square brackets,

you store them in constants,

or if you use let, in variables.

So here, we could then have hobby one and hobby two.

And what this syntax does is,

it goes through the hobbies array,

takes the first element

and stores it in a constant with this name,

takes the second element,

stores it in a constant with this name.

You can even add rest parameters here

and have remaining hobbies here

in case the hobbies array had more elements than just two.

Then all the remaining elements which you didn't pull out

into hobby one or hobby two

will be stored in a new array called remaining hobbies.

So they will be merged together into a new array.

By the way destructuring does not change the original array.

So if we console.log hobbies, hobby one, and hobby two here,

you will see that hobbies is still the old array.

It's not empty or anything like that.

So the values which we pulled out in quotes

are really just copied into new constants or variables,

not really removed from the array.

Now that's array destructuring.

We've got the same for objects.

We've got our person here.

Now let's say we want to store name and age

in standalone constants, or variables.

Just as array destructuring,

object destructuring works with both const and let.

Here I'll go with const.

And now we can use curly braces

on the left side of the equal sign.

Although a new syntax, I guess.

And have our object, or the variable pointing at the object

on the right side.

Now by the way, please note,

this is not an object type I'm assigning here.

I don't have a colon here.

It's really just curly braces like this on the left side

without a colon after some constant name.

So I'm not assigning the type of the value

that could be stored a constant.

I'm really just using a special syntax.

Because here, we now also can refer

to property names we have in an object,

for example, name and age,

to pull the values for these keys out of person

and store them in constants of the same name.

Now here I'm getting errors

because at the very top I already have a age variable.

And name turns out to be a globally available variable

which exists anyways.

So there, the workaround would be

to really just use a different key name here,

firstName, for example.

And now we can pull out the value by that key here.

So this is how object destructuring works.

The important thing here is for array destructuring,

elements are pulled out in order

because an array is an ordered list.

In objects, the order is not always guaranteed,

and therefore, we don't pull elements out by position,

but by key name.

So the values, or the names you specify here

between the curly braces,

are not arbitrary.

You can't come up with names here.

These have to be property names you find in the object,

so that the values for these keys

can be pulled out of the object

And then they're stored in constants or variables

of the same name.

If you would want to override that name,

you could do so with a colon here.

Again, it's not a type assignment here.

It just sets a new name.

So this is all JavaScript syntax,

has nothing to do with Typescript.

So here we could store this

in a userName constant for example.

And therefore, thereafter,

we can console.log userName and age,

but not firstName,

because it basically overwrote firstName

to be named userName in the constant which we create

when we pull out values here.

Age is not overwritten, so we can use it like that.

Again, this is not a type assignment here.

This is JavaScript syntax,

where we alias rename a property

we're pulling out of person.

Also, just as before with the array,

the person object itself has not changed.

We really just copy these values out of the object.

And therefore, we get this output here.

