Lecture resource: https://github.com/mschwarzmueller/understanding-typescript-resources/blob/main/attachments/06-classes-interfaces/tsconfig.json

So, let's get started with classes.

For this, I'm in a brand new, pretty much empty project.

I got a tsconfig.json file,

which is the standard tsconfig.json file,

except for the target which I set to ES2022 for me here.

You can, of course, choose whichever target you want

and you'll also find this file attached, by the way.

But with that all set up, we can add a new,

let's say basics.ts file.

The name, of course, is not important,

but in there I now wanna create a first class.

And you do that, both in Vanilla JavaScript

and in TypeScript with help of the class keyword.

Then, thereafter, you have the name of your class,

the name of your blueprint, so to say.

For example, if you wanted to create a user class,

which you can then use to create multiple user objects,

you could name it user,

but the name, of course, is up to you.

The convention just is to start with an uppercase character.

Not a technical requirement,

but something that's typically done.

Thereafter, you have a pair of curly braces,

and that's your first class,

though this class isn't too useful.

Instead, what you typically often do when creating classes

is that you add properties to these classes.

Fields, as they're also called.

So you add properties to these classes

to make sure that every object

that's created based on such a class

has those same properties.

They might hold different values.

We'll get back to that soon.

But adding properties, adding such fields,

is something that's often done.

And in Vanilla JavaScript,

you do that by adding a constructor method to your class.

That's a special method you can add to your class,

a special function inside of your class

that belongs to the class,

that will be executed automatically

whenever you instantiate the class with the new keyword.

So, whenever you do that,

this constructor method will be called,

and that's still all Vanilla JavaScript.

And in that constructor method in Vanilla JavaScript,

you can then add your properties,

like a name property, which you could set to Max.

This is how you would do it in Vanilla JavaScript.

But as you can tell in TypeScript,

this produces an error

that the property name does not exist on this user class

because in TypeScript properties

are added in a different way to classes

instead of creating them kind of on the fly

in the constructor, in TypeScript,

like in many other programming languages,

you add your class properties

directly in the class definition,

outside of the constructor.

So if you wanna have a name property in that class,

instead of adding it here, you would add it here

and you can instill a sign and initial value of Max.

That's how you would do it in TypeScript,

and that's one key difference already.

This, of course, also allows you in TypeScript to get rid of

that constructor and, therefore, have a much leaner class,

if all you wanna do is have such a fixed property.

Now, often, you want to have clearly defined properties,

which are the same for all instances

that are based on that class,

but you want to allow different values in those properties

because otherwise you'll have some exactly equal clones

of your objects, which are all exactly the same,

holding exactly the same values,

and that's typically not too useful.

That's why it's quite common to have such a constructor

where you then accept values for your properties,

like a name value, which should be of type string.

And let's say a age value, which is of type number,

because we also might want to have a age property in here.

And we could also initialize that to some default value,

or we leave it uninitialized

and set it to type number, for example.

And we could do the same here for the name

and set that to string.

With that I'm getting some errors up here,

but we'll fix that soon.

So, now, we have some two uninitialized properties here,

but we have a constructor that expects two parameters,

name and age, which are of type string and number.

So, the same as up here.

The names of these arguments,

by the way, could be different.

We could have n and a here, as well.

They don't have to match these property names.

And here I'll use these different names

to make it very clear that they don't have to be equal here.

Because what we can do now is

we can now, that we added those properties here,

again, use the this keyword,

which is a standard JavaScript feature,

to access the name property.

Now it does exist because we defined it here

and assign the value we receive for n here to that property,

so that the property is no longer uninitialized.

It is up here,

but since the constructor gets called

right when an instance for this class is created,

the property will actually receive a value

when that class is instantiated

because we assign a value here.

We can do the same for age.

And if we do that, both those errors up here also go away

because those errors were about these properties

being uninitialized and TypeScript doesn't like that.

But if you do initialize them in the constructor,

as I'm doing now, then everything's fine.

And that's how you could set up properties

and accept and assign values with help

of the constructor in TypeScript.

