So when we created this first class,

we used this shortcut where we added the public keyword

in front of the parameter name,

which should be converted into a property, so to say,

or for which TypeScript should create

and initialize a property behind the scenes.

But the public keyword is more than just

a shortcut enabler

because we could have also used public

for a property we created outside of the constructor.

For example here, if a user also had another property,

let's say hobbies, which might be a string array,

then we could have used public there as well.

Now, I'm just getting an error

because this is uninitialized,

but we can fix this by adding an empty array here.

Just as a brief side note,

because it makes a lot of sense here,

this is also a perfect example for a place

where you want an explicit type assignment,

even though you have an initial value

because the initial value is just an empty array.

So all TypeScript would know without the explicit

type assignment is that hobbies should contain some array,

but it would not know which kind of values

should live inside of that array.

That's why adding this explicit type assignment here

makes a lot of sense because now it's clear that

even though it's an empty array initially,

it will eventually be an array

that may hold only string values,

but that's just a side note.

The key thing here is that we could use public here as well,

even though we're not inside

of the constructor parameter list.

Because this shortcut that's enabled

by using public here in the constructor parameter list

is just a nice extra feature provided by TypeScript.

The main idea behind the public keyword

is a different one because the main idea is that you can use

public to control how this property

or this or this property may be accessed on the object

that is created based on the class

and properties that are marked as public

can for example, simply be used with the dot notation.

As you can see, if I add a dot after the object name here,

so to say, and they can also be reassigned.

So I can assign a new value to age like this,

and that is that perfectly valid code.

If you were to mark age as private with the private keyword,

which is another keyword offered by TypeScript,

then as you can see, you would get an error down here

that the property age is private

and only accessible within the class,

so assigning it does not work,

but printing it like this is also not allowed.

In general, accessing that property outside

of the class is not allowed.

Instead, private properties can only be accessed

from inside the class, for example, from inside a method

that can be added to a class,

and methods are added in TypeScript classes

just as you could add them to JavaScript classes.

In there you could access

the age property with help of the this keyword.

This would be allowed even though it's private

because you're inside of the class,

but outside of the class, it's not allowed.

Besides public and private

there also is protected, which works like private,

but also makes sure that this property

may be accessed in classes that inherit from this class,

but we'll get back to inheritance later.

And that's what public and private are actually about.

The shortcut is nice to have,

but the main idea is that you can control

how these properties may be accessed outside of the class,

and to be very clear,

public and private are TypeScript exclusive features.

These keywords do not exist in vanilla JavaScript.

Indeed, vanilla JavaScript does have the concept

of private properties as well.

By default, all properties are public,

but it does have the concept of private properties as well.

With help of this hashtag syntax,

if you add a property like this in vanilla JavaScript,

it would be treated as private as well.

In TypeScript you instead use

the public and private keywords

as you do in some other programming languages.

The vanilla JavaScript approach would work here as well.

As you can see, I could add such a private property

like this as well, but in TypeScript

you typically use public and private instead.

Now, just as a final side note,

if you omit public on a property that's defined here,

then it is also considered as public as a default.

Omitting public in a constructor is not a good idea

because with that, you then lose this shortcut.

TypeScript will now no longer create a name property

for this name parameter.

That's why you have to keep it here,

but you could remove it on properties that are created

outside of the constructor,

and then they would be treated as public as a default.

If you want it to be private, you need to add private.

That's how that works.

