Now that we got
some crucial TypeScript class-related essentials,
you could say out of the way, I wanna dive
into some more advanced class-related features.
For that, I'll add this advanced.TS file
and we'll start with getters and setters.
Let's say you again have a class called user,
and in that class you have this constructor function.
And there, let's say you wanna have two private properties,
the first name property, which should be a string,
and the last name property, which should also be a string.
But now you also want to allow users
to get the full name of this user,
which is the combination of the first and the last name.
And that should be a publicly available property.
Well, you can achieve this with a getter,
which is a special kind of property
or method depending on how you wanna look at it.
You create a getter in a class by using the get keyword,
and then after that you add the name
of the property you want to create,
like full name, for example.
The special thing here is that you do create this property
like a method now, though.
So you add parentheses here and a pair of curly braces.
Inside of that method, you then must return a value.
That's the error you are getting
if you're not returning something,
that you must return a value.
Because a getter is basically a calculated
or a computed property, you could say.
A property which has its value derived
on the fly when it's accessed, so to say.
So here for example,
we could return this dot first name plus a blank,
plus this dot last name.
And now if you instantiate this class,
if you instantiate a new user like Max Schwarzmüller,
which is my name here,
I am actually getting a bunch of errors here
because I have the same class name
and same constant name in that other TypeScript file here.
So I will delete that to get rid of these errors.
And with that, if I do that,
you'll see that I can create this user.
But if I now try to log some information about the user,
I can't access the first and last name properties
because these are private.
But I can access the full name property
because that's a public one.
I did not add private in front of it.
We could do that, but I don't want to do that here.
And indeed, you can now access full name like a property.
You don't execute it like a method,
even though it's defined like a method.
But that's just not how getters work.
Due to this get accessor here, as it's called,
this is treated like a property and used like a property,
but it's calculated on the fly when you access it.
And therefore if you save this and you compile your code
and you then execute this advance.JS file,
you'll see whichever names you entered in the console
and you'll see the full name, most importantly.
So that's a getter and what you can do with it.
