Now besides getters,
TypeScript also knows the concept of setters,
which are also methods you could say
that are called right before a property is set.
For example here, we could create this class
in a slightly different way.
Instead of having our constructor here,
we could just add those properties
like this and we would then get a complaint
that they're not initialized.
So we could initialize them to empty strings, let's say,
so that we have some initial values right from the start.
But now let's say we wanna make sure
that whenever they're set, we check the input values
before we actually store them in a property.
That could be something we might wanna do,
and a setter is perfect for that scenario.
Now we can create such a setter by using the set keyword,
and then we have to add the property name we want to use
outside of this class.
Like for example, first name.
Now, since I'm already using the name up here,
we got a name clash.
And therefore you could, for example, prefix this
with an underscore.
So that first name is not used already.
Then you again, add this like a method
just as you did for a getter,
and you'll then see that you also get an error here
that a setter must have exactly one parameter,
which kind of makes sense
because a setter is all about setting a value,
so that value must be accepted as a parameter.
In this case,
the first name must be accepted as a parameter.
You can name this parameter whatever you want of course.
Inside of the setter,
you can then do whatever you want.
For example, check this received value
and throw an error if it's not valid.
But ultimately you should store it in some property.
So here we can store it in underscore first name.
Now, to make this a bit more useful,
we could then indeed add a check
and check if name after trimming it
to remove access whitespace at the beginning and end.
If that's equal to an empty string,
because we might not want that.
So we could throw a new error,
using the built-in error clause
that's provided by JavaScript.
Invalid name.
And that would be a scenario for using a setter
that you have this extra validation step you wanna run
before the received value is actually stored.
We can of course, then copy this,
and do the same for the last name.
Renamed this second setter to last name,
and therefore renamed this property up here
to underscore last name.
And then here, also check the received name
and store it in underscore last name if it's valid.
Now, of course, underscore first name
and last name are the actual properties
that will eventually store the value.
So it's these properties that should be used in a getter.
With all that done,
so with the setters and the getter added
and set up like this,
we can go to our user and create it like that
because we no longer have a constructor function
that would accept any arguments.
You could still add one,
but here in this example, I removed it,
and therefore what we should do
is manually store these values.
And as you can see, I got a first
and a last name property, which I can assign here,
and it's a public property
because we did not add private in front of the setter
so we can access it from outside the class to set it.
We can, for example, set a first name of Max
and maybe a last name of nothing,
which should not be allowed.
But we'll see if that's the case soon.
And therefore, even though first name
and last name are also written like methods,
just as together was, we're not using them like methods.
We're not calling them here.
Instead we're using them like properties
because they use the special set keyword,
which kind of turns them into enhanced properties,
if you wanna call it like this.
Well, with all that done, let's see if that code works
or to be precise, if it throws an error as it should,
because this is an empty string,
which is invalid due to our check here.
So let's compile the code
and then let's run this advanced.js file.
And indeed, that's looking good.
I'm getting some error here.
I'm getting the invalid name error,
which is that custom error I'm throwing here.
So that's working the way it should,
and that's how you can use setters
and getters with your classes.
