So you did learn a lot

about classes at this point.

One other important thing you can do with classes,

not just in TypeScript

but also in vanilla JavaScript, is you can extend them,

you can use inheritance, which can also be a useful feature.

For example, here I have my user base class,

which defines a user as an object

that has a first name and last name,

and this full name getter

and this static EID property and this static greet method.

Now, what if we wanna build another class

that builds up on that user?

For example, we could have an employee class,

which should have a first name and a last name

and a full name and all these things.

But in addition, we want to have a job title in there

and maybe a work method.

Well, you can use the extends keyword,

not just in TypeScript.

Again, as mentioned, this is a JavaScript feature,

so you could use it there as well

if you were not using TypeScript.

But you can use the extends keyword to define a base class

this class should build up on.

In my case here, user.

And now employee is a class that inherits all the properties

and methods from the user class

and can in addition, add its own properties and methods.

And you could also overwrite the properties

and methods of the base class.

So here, for example, we could add a constructor

and then make sure

that we have a public property called job title,

which should be of type string.

So that's a new property which is added

to this employee class now.

Now what you have to do when you're using the constructor

in a class that inherits from some other class,

is inside of that constructor,

you must call the special super function,

which is a built-in function, a built-in keyword,

which simply ensures that the constructor

of the base class is getting called as well.

You have to do that when extending a class.

In the constructor, if you add the constructor,

you must call the base class constructor

with help of the super keyword, the super function as well.

By the way, you can also use super

to access the base class object

and for example, set a first name here, like this.

That's also possible from inside the extending class.

If the constructor

of the base class would take some parameters,

which is not the case here.

I did not define a custom constructor here,

but if it were to take some extra parameters,

you would have to pass these parameters here

to the base class constructor when calling super.

But here we don't have a custom constructor

in the base class, so we just call super like this.

And as mentioned,

you could now also add custom methods here,

like a work method, which does something

and do whatever you want to do.

Inheritance is really all about building up on a base class

and then adding anything you want to that class

that is building up on that base class.

