Now last but not least,

there is one other class that's supported by TypeScript,

which unlike these classes we had a look at thus far,

does only exist in TypeScript

and is not a vanilla JavaScript feature.

And that would be an abstract class.

Let's say We wanna have a class called UIElement,

which should define a base class

for various UIElements we might have on our website.

So such a UIElement should maybe have a property

called identifier, which identifies the UIElement.

So of course we might set this up

with help of a constructor therefore,

just as you learned it.

And maybe we wanna have a method, clone,

that can be used to simply duplicate such an element.

And in here we would have the logic

to duplicate the UI element.

Maybe the clone method also takes a targetLocation,

which could be another string or anything like this.

This could of course also be any other type.

So that could be such a UI element class.

But now let's say,

that we then actually have more specialized element classes

that should build up on this UI element class.

We could have one for a log in form UI element,

we could have another one for some tabs or some SideDrawer.

And that's exactly the idea behind abstract classes.

The idea is that you can't directly instantiate

these classes.

If I were to add a UI element here

by using the UI element constructor like this,

I would get an error that I cannot create an instance

of an abstract class

because abstract classes are meant to only work

as base classes other classes should inherit from.

So base classes should not be usable

or instantiatble themselves.

Instead, they should only act as base classes.

So that we could add a SideDrawerElement class,

which extends the UIElement class.

That's the idea behind abstract classes.

They should be extended by other classes.

And now the SideDrawerElement class

would have this clone method, which of course can be used

and it would have this identifier property,

but we could now add more.

For example, here, we could add a constructor

where we do accept this identifier as in a base class

but where in addition,

we might want to have a position property,

which is either left or right, let's say

to define where exactly the SideDrawer should be shown.

And inside of the constructor, as you learned it before,

you then must call the super method.

And in this case, we must forward the identifier here

to that super method

so to the constructor of the base class.

Because the base class constructor here

does take one argument, one parameter.

So we must pass this value

to the base class constructor here.

And then we could add more properties and more methods here.

And that's the idea behind abstract classes.

Therefore, it's of course a never

a bit more advanced feature,

which you might not need all the time,

but especially when working on more complex projects

or when building third party libraries,

you might have certain classes

that shouldn't be usable themselves directly,

but that instead should only act as base classes.

And in such cases you can decorate them

with the abstract keyword.

And again, as mentioned, this abstract keyword,

this feature only exists in TypeScript.

If you were to compile this code to JavaScript,

you will not find the abstract keyword there

because it is a pure TypeScript feature.

