Before we really dive into TypeScript

and all its core features,

there's one last thing I want to get out of the way.

I want to ensure that you get the most out of this course,

and therefore I got a couple of recommendations

you might want to consider following

when going through that course.

And it all starts with watching the videos

because of course it is a video-based course.

But, with that, I mean that you should, for example,

take advantage of the fact

that you can adjust the playback speed of those videos.

Speed me up if I'm going to slow for your taste,

or slow me down if I'm going too fast.

You can, of course, also take advantage of the fact

that it's a video-on-demand course,

so if something's not clear immediately,

or if you had to take a break,

and you forgot some things,

definitely rewatch videos.

That is the idea of a video-on-demand course.

You can watch videos and sections as often as needed.

Also, follow the curriculum, at least for the first sections

because I took great care to create a curriculum

that walks you through TypeScript, step by step,

where all those sections,

in the end, build up on each other,

In the later parts of the course,

where we dive into more advanced features

and where you, for example, learn about things

like using React with TypeScript,

you can definitely also skip sections

or switch the order,

but especially for the first couple of sections

where you learn about all those essentials,

you should stick to the curriculum order.

That's my recommendation.

I also recommend that you code along,

and that you practice what you learn

because only practice makes perfect.

Sounds obvious, but a lot of students don't do that.

Feel free to deviate from the course code.

You don't have to type exactly what I'm typing.

Play around with TypeScript.

Explore how things change if you change types

or if you combine different TypeScript features

you learned about.

Use the knowledge you gain throughout this course,

and also use it in your future projects

even if it's just dummy projects.

But apply what you learned.

Now, of course, when coding along

and when practicing and applying what you learned,

you'll also encounter problems and errors.

That is totally normal.

And, therefore, of course you should try

to fix those problems.

And I strongly recommend that you first try doing that

on your own,

that you don't immediately reach out

for AI, Google, or the course Q&A section.

These resources are there to help you if you need them,

and you definitely should go for them at some point,

but definitely try solving problems on your own first

because otherwise you won't learn a lot.

And especially also when it comes to the course Q&A section,

take advantage of the fact

that you cannot just ask there,

but that you can also answer

because, by helping other students solve their problems,

you'll learn so much more than if you just ask.

So these are my recommendations,

and, therefore, let's now dive in,

and let's learn more about TypeScript.

