So, in order to get started with interfaces,

I'll add a new TypeScript file

and I'll name it interfaces.ts.

And in that file, we can create a first interface,

similar to what we had on the slide before

by using this interface keyword.

And this is now a keyword that only exists in TypeScript.

You can't define interfaces in JavaScript.

Now, after the interface keyword,

you have the name of your interface,

like for example, Authenticatable,

though the name of course is up to you.

Could be anything you want.

Here, I'm choosing this name though,

because with this interface,

I wanna describe objects

that implement certain properties and methods

that can help with authentication

if we were building an application

where we need authentication.

So, I'm trying to choose a name here that describes

what this interface is all about.

And this interface, the way I'll structure it,

will be all about making something,

a user object, for example, authenticatable.

But ultimately, you can choose any name you want here.

And you will see different naming conventions

in different projects, by the way.

Now, you then have a pair of opening and closing

curly braces, just as if you were defining a class.

It's pretty similar up to this point,

but then between those curly braces,

you only describe a type,

an object type to be precise.

You don't have the actual implementation

of an object or a class here.

You don't have any values in here.

When defining a class, you had values in there.

We assigned a string here,

we had logic in here in this setter.

So, inside of a class you have values and you have logic.

Inside of an interface definition.

You have neither.

Instead, you could say that objects

that adhere to this Authenticatable interface, so to say,

so that have the shape of this Authenticatable interface,

if you wanna call it like this,

that such objects should have an email field,

let's say, which should be of type string.

And maybe they should also have a password field

that should be of type string.

They also could have other fields in addition to that,

but here, I'll use these two.

And I'll say that objects that, well,

adhere to this Authenticatable interface

should have a login method

and they should have a logout method.

And now, here's the interesting thing.

When defining the interface,

you don't add curly braces here.

You don't add any logic here, because, again,

an interface is not about containing any values or logic,

you just define the shape of something.

And if I wanna say that an object

that has this shape should have a login method,

I only need to describe the shape

or the type of that login method.

So, whether it should have any parameters,

for example, like this,

or what the return value type should be.

So, here, I could describe Authenticatable objects

as objects that have email and password properties,

and log in and log out methods

where both methods take no parameters and return nothing.

That would be one way of building such a type

or of defining such a type, such an interface.

And with that interface defined like this,

you can then, in the next step, use it.

