Now, when using interfaces as object types,
as we're doing here, you might have one question:
why would you use an interface?
After all, you could also create a custom object type
with the help of the "type" keyword,
as you learned before in the course.
You could create such a "type" alias,
add an equal sign here,
and you're done.
You have exactly the same logic, the same feature,
if you want to call it like this,
now just using this "type" keyword instead of an interface.
So why would you do it with an interface
instead of using this "type" alias feature,
about which you already learned?
And you would be right with that question.
If all you want to do is define the shape of an object,
if you want to create a custom object type,
then you could absolutely do that
with the "type" keyword as well, in most cases at least.
And in most cases,
it therefore comes down to personal preference.
Whether you want to define object types
with the help of the "type" keyword like this
or as interfaces like this,
both work and both can be done.
Now, there are some subtle differences
that can matter in certain scenarios,
but I'll be honest, in many scenarios, they won't.
But one difference that could matter
is a feature called "declaration merging,"
which means that when working with interfaces,
you can easily add extra properties
or methods to this object type
by defining the same interface again.
So, using exactly the same name again here,
that's something you can do,
and you could add a "role" here.
Now, here, I'm not getting an error
that this name is already taken.
Instead, TypeScript, behind the scenes,
will merge these two interface definitions into one,
which is why I'm getting an error down here,
where I am being told that I must add this role property
to this user object.
Of course, you might wonder why this would be useful,
after all, we could have just added role right here
in the first definition instead of defining it again,
and you would be right.
This "declaration merging" feature is mostly useful
if you are working with interfaces
that are coming from another file or, more commonly,
from some library or anything like that,
so where you maybe want to extend something
you don't directly control.
If you want to add a property
to some interface you don't directly control,
you could do that with "declaration merging" like this.
That would be one place where this feature can be useful,
and that is then something you can't do with "type" aliases.
If you were to define this as a "type"
and then define it again as a "type,"
you would get an error that the name is already taken.
So that is one pretty niche scenario
where you must use "interface" instead of "type."
But in many other cases, it simply won't matter.
And instead, as mentioned,
it will come down to personal preference.
You will see both out there in the wild,
you'll see lots of "interface" usage in certain projects,
and almost no "interface" usage in other projects.
Instead, their custom types with the "type" keyword
might be used in all the places,
and in the end, you can use whatever you want.
It's just important to know about both features
and to know about the subtle differences.
