Now, interfaces, as you learned,

can be used to describe object types.

There is one other super useful thing you can do

with interfaces though.

Besides using them here to define object types,

you can also use them in conjunction with classes.

Let's say we wanna have an AuthenticatableUser class.

And the idea here is that this is a user

where we might store all kinds of user data, like the name

and the address, but we also wanna make sure

that we have all the logic in that class

that makes this user authenticable.

So a login method and a logout method.

Now, to force ourselves and other developers

that might be working on the same project

to build this class in a certain way

and to use certain clearly defined property

and method names, we can implement an interface

with the implements keyword, like this.

This implements keyword is another TypeScript feature

that works in conjunction with the interface keyword

because the implements keyword forces a class

to implement the structure

of the interface you're implementing.

And you could implement multiple interfaces here,

by the way, simply by separating them with commas.

So here in this case, I'm getting an error

because my class does not implement

the Authenticable interface correctly.

To implement it correctly, we need to add the email

and password properties, for example, here by adding them

to the constructor like this.

And we must add the login and logout methods,

again, the concrete implementations

of these methods with all the logic inside

of them, like this.

And now the error goes away.

And that's therefore,

one other thing you can do with interfaces.

You can use them as contracts, you could say,

that force a class to have a certain shape.

And this, again, can be useful if you're working

in bigger projects with other developers,

or if you're building some third-party library

that should be used in a certain way

because with interfaces, you can ensure

that a class will have a certain shape.

This class could have more than the properties defined

by this interface.

We could also have like a userName property here.

That would be fine.

You can have more than you need to have due

to the interface, but you must at least have the properties

and methods defined by the interface.

And that's therefore a great way of ensuring that a class

does have a certain minimal shape, so to say.

