Lecture resource: https://github.com/mschwarzmueller/understanding-typescript-resources/blob/main/attachments/07-advanced-types/guards.ts
In certain situations
when working with TypeScript,
you might be working with multiple possible types
like here in this guards.ts file,
which I created for you and which you find attached.
Here I have a load data function
and this function wants a data source,
which is of type source,
which is this type here.
And as you can tell, this type is a combination of two types
or to be precise, it's one of these two types.
It's either a file source or a database source.
And these are types that are defined up here.
The file source type here in this basic example
is simply an object with a path property.
Whereas the database source type is an object
with a connection URL property.
So these two types have different properties,
they have different shapes.
Now inside of load data, we of course want
to load data from these sources,
but the code we have to write in here
depends on which source we get,
if it's a file source or a database source.
Because if it's a file source we need to use this path
to open the file.
If it's a database source,
we need to establish a connection to this URL
and therefore we can't write just one piece of code
inside of load data.
Instead we need to find out which kind of argument,
which kind of parameter type we got here.
Put in other words, we need to add a so-called type guard.
And if check that ensures
that the proper piece of code is executed
depending on which kind of value we get.
And there are different kinds
of type guards you could write in TypeScript.
You actually already saw a quite complex type guard
way earlier in the course
when I introduced you to the unknown type.
There you saw that we could check the runtime type
of the incoming value
and that we could look for the existence
of certain properties.
Here in this example, it's again the existence
of certain properties
or of a certain property in this basic example
that we could utilize
because if we know that we want
to open a file at a certain path,
we also know that we need to check for the existence
of the path property in order to do so.
So in this if check, we could check
if the path property exists in source
and if that's the case,
we can access source.path
and then use that to open the file,
if we were writing real code here.
Unlike in that more complex example
from earlier when I introduced you to the unknown type,
we don't need to check if the type
of source is equal to object here.
We could add this check, but it's actually redundant
because here our argument,
our parameter type is not unknown, it's source.
So we know it's either file source or database source
and both types are guaranteed to be object types
'cause that's how we defined them here.
So this check here is redundant
because yeah, source will always be an object.
We already know that.
The question just is which kind of object will it be?
Will it be this object with the path property
or this object with the connection URL property?
That's why this check suffices.
And then here we could return
after we're done executing the code.
And therefore after this if check,
TypeScript actually already figured out
that will have a connection URL available
to reach out to the database
because TypeScript understands
that source is either a file source or a database source.
And it thankfully understands that due to this if check,
the file source case will have been handled here
and since we returned,
there is no way we make it past this if check,
if it is a file source,
and therefore TypeScript understands
that after this if check,
we must be dealing with a value of type DB source,
which is why it allows us access
to the connection URL property.
And that's the offer,
another example for a type guard here,
not used with the unknown type,
but instead with a union type where we're dealing
with different types that are not fully compatible
with each other,
which is another super common use case
for working with type guards.
And you see how easy it is in the end or how easy it can be.
Also, thanks to TypeScript understanding how our code works
and how we're evaluating the types.
