So here, I'm using the IN operator

to find out whether my incoming argument

by parameter has a path property,

which is an absolutely fine way of dealing with this here.

But there also would be another way

of riding this type guard.

In general though, I'll say that you can become creative,

you can write any if check,

any condition that makes sense to you,

if it helps you find out whether you're dealing

with a File Source or a Database Source.

But one common pattern

you'll also see in many TypeScript projects

is to work with so-called discriminated unions.

And the idea is that instead of checking for the existence

of certain properties like path or connection URL,

which might be changed in the future,

I mean, the property names might be changed in the future.

Instead of using them,

you could use some shared property

which exists in both types

that are combined with the union type.

You could have a type property for example,

though the name is up to you.

But here I'll go with type,

and I'll set the type here to file for my FileSource.

So here I'm still inside of the type definition,

but I'm using this literal type feature here

to set this type property, not to any string,

but to the specific string file.

And then for DBSource, I'll also add a type property,

but I'll set it to db.

So again, this is a type definition,

but here, I'm using a literal type to set this type property

to exactly the type DB string.

Now of course, we also must adjust the actual values now

and set type to file here and set type to db here

to make sure that we're correctly building an object

of those respective types.

Now, source is still either the FileSource or the DBSource,

but it will, therefore, be an object

where the type is either file or DB.

We can take advantage of this here.

Instead of checking for the existence of the path property,

we could add an alternative if check

where we check if source.type,

which is guaranteed to exist because both types,

the FileSource and the DBSource both have a type property.

So we can safely access this here

because source, no matter which source it will be,

will definitely have a type property.

But the value of the type property,

as you can see here in the inferred type,

is either file or db.

So it's a string that either says file or db.

And you see that TypeScripts inference is really powerful

because it correctly inferred this union type

of file or DB due to how we configured these types up here.

And therefore, we can check if the type is file.

And then here, we can access source.path

with autocompletion without an error

because TypeScript understands

that inside of this if check,

we're dealing with the FileSource value type.

We're dealing with the value of this type

because the type property is set to file,

and we're checking for this here.

And TypeScript also understands

that after this if check where I return,

we definitely will have a connection URL

because we must be dealing with a value of type DBSource

after the if check,

because we're checking for the FileSource case

inside of this first if check.

And this is, therefore, another way of checking

for different value types.

Here, we're using the so-called discriminated union pattern

where we add a shared property

to all the types that we're combining in a union.

And we're using the values of these properties,

which will be different for the different value types

to find out with which concrete value type

we're dealing down here.

So we're discriminating based on that shared property,

we're running different code based on that shared property.

