Lecture resource: https://github.com/mschwarzmueller/understanding-typescript-resources/blob/main/attachments/07-advanced-types/guards-updated.ts
Another common kind of type guard
can be useful when dealing with classes
or with objects that were created based on classes.
Like in this example.
Attached you find my updated guards.ts file
and in there you'll find two classes, User and Admin,
and some code where I instantiate these classes
to create concrete User and Admin objects.
I then have the entity type, which simply is a union type
so that I either have a value of type User or Admin.
And I'm passing a value of that type,
so either a User or an Admin, to this init function.
And inside of this init function, I now either want
to call the join method which exists on the User,
or the scan method which exists on the Admin.
Therefore again, in this init function we need an if check.
We need to find out with which concrete
kind of value we're working.
And when dealing with classes,
we can take advantage of a specific JavaScript keyword
or operator that's built into JavaScript.
So that's not TypeScript specific,
but that instead really is coming from JavaScript.
We can use the instanceof operator.
This allows us to check whether entity
is an instance of user for example.
And we'll then only make it into this if block
if entity is an object that was created
with help of the User constructor or that's based on
that User class in some way to be precise.
And therefore in here we can safely use join.
If we then return so that we can't make it past
this if check with a User object,
we can then also safely use scan thereafter
after the safe check because again,
TypeScript will understand that we're handling the case
that entity is an object of type User inside this if check.
And since we're then returning,
it understands that thereafter we must be dealing
with an object of type Admin,
which is why we can call scan without issues.
And therefore instanceof is another way of finding out
with which kind of value we are working,
and it is therefore another very useful kind of type card.
