Now, there is another useful
TypeScript feature or type I want to show you
and I'll show you in this advanced.ts file,
though of course, as always you can create
and name the file however you want.
But let's say you have a scenario where you want
to define a custom object type called storage
or anything like that,
or data store doesn't matter,
which should actually be
a relatively flexible object type.
Instead of having some clearly predefined properties,
like name, and age, or anything like that, you might want
to allow the developers who work with that type to add
as many properties as they want to this object
as long as they have a certain shared value type.
And to achieve this and to build such a flexible type,
TypeScript offers the so-called index type feature.
When defining an object type, as we're doing it here,
you can put the property definition, so to say,
the property name, between square brackets
and you could name it key or prop,
it doesn't matter, because prop here is now actually not
the name of a property that exists in this object type,
but instead it's a placeholder
since it's between the square brackets here.
This tells TypeScript that this is a placeholder
for any property with any name
and actually any amount of properties with any names
of the choice of the developer
who later uses this object type.
So it's a placeholder for a dynamic property
where we don't know the name in advance
and where we don't even know
how many dynamic properties might be added in the future.
You do need to add a colon
after this placeholder name here, though,
because you must define which kind
of value this property will be of.
And this can now be confusing,
but I'm not talking about the value
that will be stored under that property,
so that can be accessed through that property,
but I'm talking about the value type
of the property name itself.
And in most cases this will be string.
But JavaScript objects also do allow symbol
or number properties.
So you could add a number as a property to an object
or you could use the special symbol value.
And that is all just vanilla JavaScript,
nothing TypeScript specific.
But by using string here you make it clear
that any properties of any name can be added
to this object in the future
as long as the property names can be identified
or treated as strings.
And then you must add a colon
after the square bracket to now define which types
of values can be stored
under those dynamic properties in the future.
For example, booleans, or numbers,
or numbers or booleans, whatever you need.
You can use union types here, as well.
You can use object types here, array types,
whatever you need.
Now this might look weird,
but you could now use this type here
like this to initially maybe even create an empty object
and then run some other code.
And then eventually you could add more properties
to that store here.
Like for example, id, which could be five
or is open, which could be false.
And this is something TypeScript normally wouldn't allow.
You can't just add properties
to an object without defining them in the object type first.
But it is allowed if you use this index type feature here
so that you tell TypeScript that there may be
as many properties as needed with any names you want.
TypeScript doesn't care as long as they only contain
number or boolean values.
So here if I add a name property like this that fails
because now here max, this string, is not assignable
to, well. the number or boolean union type.
And that stands for another pretty important
TypeScript feature because it allows you, the developer.
to create very flexible
and dynamic object types without losing type safety.
You just have more flexibility
than with standard object types.
And sometimes you need that extra flexibility.
