Another more advanced TypeScript feature is

the satisfies keyword, which is relatively new,

not super new, but it hasn't been around forever

and it can be a bit tricky to wrap your head

around this keyword.

So I'll try my best to explain it here.

Let's say you have a variable or constant,

doesn't matter, dataEntries,

and in there I'll store an object

with various key value pairs,

so therefore I'll use the record utility type

that's provided by TypeScript.

And I'll say that I have string property names

and then I'll have numbers for the actual values.

And now let's say we have an initial value

where we have an object with a couple of keys like entry1

with some value, entry2,

with some value like this.

Now, further down in our code, we can of course interact

with data entries and we can, for example,

access entry1 with the dot notation or entry2,

but also entry3, which does not exist here.

But we can safely access this because TypeScript knows

that data entries is in the end an object with any keys

and values as long as the keys can be interpreted as strings

and the values are numbers.

So this is a valid property name

from TypeScript's perspective.

It does not check whether this property actually

exists here or not.

Sure, we could remove this type assignment

and let's TypeScript infer a more specific object type here.

And in that case we would get an error here,

but if we have this type assignment, we won't.

And let's say we need to assign a type here.

We don't want to rely on type inference,

because even though in this simple demo I'm hardcoding

an initial value, we might be building a third party library

where we wanna expose parts of our code to other developers

that use that library

and we might not know in advance which concrete values

they will be using in their code.

So put in other words,

we might wanna write some type-safe code here

where we don't actually know the exact value yet,

even though in this simple demo here we do.

So that's why we might want to set a tie.

At the same time, we might want to get as good

of a type inference as possible,

and we might want to have as narrow of a type as possible,

even though we're setting a relatively

wide type definition here.

And that's where the satisfies keyword can help us.

Now, see how things change.

If I remove this type assignment here and instead

after the VLU, I add satisfies,

and then my type definition.

Satisfies also tells TypeScript

that data entries will hold a record type

with string properties and number of values.

But when using satisfies,

instead of the colon notation here,

TypeScript will actually take a look at the value you are

assigning to data entries.

It will check whether that value fits this type here,

if it's a valid type of value given the type

you want it to satisfy.

But then if that's the case as it is here,

it will actually use the more specific type it can

infer from that value.

So put in other words, TypeScript will use the type you set

after the satisfies keyword

to check whether the actual value assigned

to data entries is of that type.

But it will then

as a second step actually infer a more specific type from

the concrete value you are setting.

So the actual type set

for data entries will not be record, string, number

and allow access to any properties of any names,

but instead it will be this concrete object,

which has two properties named entry1 and entry2,

which hold number values.

The value type that can be inferred from

that actual value you are assigning here beats

the more broad, more flexible type you might be defining

after it satisfies, the value just has to satisfy this type.

But if it's then a bit more specific than this type,

the more specific type will be used as a type

for data entries, which is why entry3 can now

not be accessed here.

But entry2, for example, can.

Now, this is definitely an advanced feature

and to be honest,

it is a feature you will very likely not use a lot.

In my personal experience, I have found this keyword

to be the most useful when working on libraries

when writing code that's meant to be used

by other people where you want

to enforce some rules,

but you want to provide the best possible TypeScript

for the actual values that may then be

provided by other developers in their code.

Nonetheless, it is an important keyword to understand

and be aware of.

And if you have a scenario where you want

to enforce a certain type,

you don't know the concrete value at the point

of time you're writing your code maybe,

which we of course here do,

but which might not always be the case.

And you want to get the best possible type inference based

on the actual value that is then received,

satisfies can be a very useful keyword,

a very useful TypeScript feature.

And to give you a more concrete example for the usage

of satisfies, I'm here on the React Router documentation.

Now, you don't need to know React or React Router,

no worries.

I'm just showing you one library

that's using the satisfies keyword.

We won't write any React code here.

In the documentation of this React Router library,

which is a library that helps

with loading different elements onto the page based

on the URL path,

in the documentation of the library,

you can see that they recommend using

this satisfies keyword here when defining the routes,

the URL paths you wanna support in your application.

And what they do here with help

of the satisfies keyword is they allow you

to define an array of routes in the end created

with help of a route helper function

provided by the library,

but they enforce a certain RouteConfig structure.

So they probably want this array to be an array full

of such objects.

However, they determine that using satisfies is the best way

of enforcing this type here,

because by using satisfies,

your actual routes that are defined

by you can be picked up by TypeScript

and further down the road in this project,

you can therefore get better type support if you want

to navigate to a certain route,

for example, TypeScript can understand which concrete routes

you have to find because you're using satisfies here

instead of a colon.

So again, it is a use case

where you want type-safety combined

with flexibility in the end.

